The American capital markets
is the envy of the world. The equity
market is doing really, really well
despite the economy not being
particularly healthy.
>> People like myself, I think
underestimated that role of AI and I
think it helps explain the resilience of
the US economy.
>> Even if the AI narrative continues, it
might challenge the fact that we look
around and say everything is
extraordinarily expensive.
>> As difficult as it is, and it is
difficult to invest in these valuations,
we think that you need to stay invested.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance heading into University of
Michigan Friday. I cannot believe that
I'm saying those words with the US
government shut down for a 10th straight
day. The economic data of corporate
earnings continuing to show a resilient
US consumer. And Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent making good on his pledge
to support Argentina's currency very
much in the forefront amid a whole slew
of questions around governments around
the world.
>> So when it comes to potentially having
more data, because as you say, you're
starting the show talking about
University of Michigan, something I
never thought I would hear you say,
we're in a we are in a data desert. You
have to dig deep, but potentially Bureau
of Labor Statistics are going to bring
people back. By the end of the month, we
might actually get inflation. I think
that's a positive note to this market.
When it comes to political instability,
the US government really un precedented
moments. I mean, this $20 swap line
buying pesos. Financially, they are
trying to shore up the markets in
Argentina and also really give a
backstop to Milei as he goes into a very
difficult midterm election at the end of
the month.
>> Well, this is an awkward moment. And as
you point out, this promise to Argentina
that was made good on by the United
States comes at a time when US workers
are starting not to get their paychecks.
And there is increasing questions around
buying soybeans. And one person could
argue it actually makes sense for the US
to fortify Latin American relationships
to compete with China in that region. On
the flip side, are they effectively
doing that when it comes to issues like
soybeans in Argentina? Well, the
Treasury Secretary made this point last
night on Fox News. He was talking about
he doesn't want China to still be
ingrained in Latin America. He made this
point to me in April in Argentina. It
was his first trip as the Treasury
Secretary. Talked about the fact how
China has all these mineral deals in
Africa and they don't want that to
happen in Argentina. But politically,
the blowback at home, it's going to be
pretty stiff. We already see Senator
Elizabeth Warren talking about this and
wanting more questions and answers in
regard to this swap line, as well as
already on display, the issue Brooke
Rollins is is having in terms of China
not buying cargos of soybeans from the
United States, they are looking to
Argentina. It is a sort of a mess and
that's the reason why maybe we're seeing
a pause in the stock market. Right now,
you're seeing equity is not doing much.
You do see a little bit of a softness
ahead of the open in futures after
yesterday's declines. And really, it was
a broad-based decline. I think it's
really important to say that stocks,
bonds, and gold all moved lower
yesterday, which is ironic considering
that gold was supposed to be the
diversifier yesterday. It was silver.
Today, you see a bit of a reversal of
that with 10-year yields down three
basis points 410.73
after that 30-year auction that was a
bit soft, but at least had strong
demand. A little bit of dollar weakness.
This comes after the biggest potential
weakening strengthening of the dollar so
far going back several months. Coming up
this hour, Christian Nolting of Deutsche
Bank will be joining us with that stock
rally pausing even though we are near
record highs. AJ Rajadaksha of Barclays
on gold's record run and Doug Rediker of
International Capital Capital Strategies
on the historic US investment in
Argentina and what the implications are.
We begin this hour with stocks trying to
rebound maybe, but actually softening as
investors look ahead to earning season.
Christian Nolting of Deutsche Bank
writing, "Friday will be data heavy,
which will help shape expectations for
the Fed's next move, especially as
markets weigh the balance between
improving sentiment and lingering fiscal
concerns." Christian joins us now.
Unfortunately, we don't have a lot of
data because of the government shutdown.
I do wonder what you make of the fact
that we saw stocks, bonds, and gold all
sell off yesterday in tandem at a time
when a lot of people are talking about
diversification.
Yeah, of course diversification is very,
very important as we all know, but I
would just say if you look for example
at gold after such a rally, if you look
at some indicators like RSI, it's really
overboard. It was above 80 on RSI, so
now it's below that. But I think it's
not a surprise and I would say even if
you see gold correcting a little bit, I
would say it's a healthy development,
but we would buy that dip on gold
because I think that story for gold is
not over from our point of view. And so
I would say also on the equity side, as
you said, we've seen quite a rally last
days. Markets were a bit sideways.
And as you rightly said, it's about the
earnings that are coming in for further
market development and market direction.
So we're learning that actually demand
is pretty strong in the US. We learned
that from Delta. Levi's was really
interesting yesterday because they
actually upgraded their expectation for
earnings and yet their shares fell out
of bed because they increased their
expectations for the tariff hit. They
said consumers were taking on that
tariff increase in costs and actually
paying higher prices. What's the
conclusion? And I understand that it's
early, but what is the conclusion from
the earnings we've gotten?
So I would say if you look at the
earnings, first of all, the market is
not as much expecting from a growth
perspective as for Q2 if you look at Q3.
I think that's good news. On the other
hand, if we weigh this a little bit,
what you can see is that the earnings
revisions were not as much lowered as
before for Q2. So from that perspective,
the market probably is a bit cautious,
but I think it's not expecting too much,
so there is a room for companies to be
better. From that perspective, I think
we do expect the earning season to be
okayish. If you think through of of the
tariffs, I think we see the pass-through
rate so far being quite low. That might
be increasing a bit over the next months
and our conclusion from that is what
we've been saying before, we don't see
inflation to come down quickly, so it's
rather staying at levels where we are or
slightly higher. So from that
perspective, we are not surprised that
yields, if you look at 10-year
Treasuries for example, are above four,
we would say 4.25 is possible in 12
months' time. Right now, and to Lisa's
point, Levi's is talking about how the
consumer is able to handle what's going
on with tariffs. But when more rates get
passed on, as you talk about in coming
months, how difficult is that going to
be for corporate America to continue
pass on higher costs?
I think yeah, I think you need to take
this into account, right? So do
companies take that from their margins
if you want, or is the consumer able to
digest this? I think so far the economy
in the US is very strong. We do see a
soft patch. So just to give you some
numbers for Q4 over Q4, we do expect the
growth rate of 0.8, so 0.8.
But if you then look with fiscal
spending into next year, if I meet you
again in Q4 2026,
the growth rate we have Q4 on Q4 is as
1.7 already. So it's a soft patch. But I
think the the growth in the economy
could help the consumer as well.
Christian, how difficult is this moment
with the US government still shut that
we do not have the gold standard data
coming out of the United States?
Yeah, it makes things a bit easier,
right? So as you see on on your ticker
as well, shutdown of the US government,
be be careful what you're what you're
doing there in a way.
But yeah, we've been living through
government shutdowns before. So from
that perspective,
I'm not so concerned. Of course, you fly
a bit blind, but we think we don't need
to change our forecast at this point in
time. If you look at equity markets for
example, government shutdowns have not
been really completely negative. I mean,
the longer that takes, there could be
higher volatility. But we are not that
concerned about this one because we
think yeah, even it might be a bit
longer, but at one point in time it will
come back and then we get the data. They
might be disrupted, then they might
cause some volatility, but from our
point of view, we don't need to change
strategy because of this. I love it. It
makes it easier cuz there are fewer
numbers to analyze. So, you know, go
home early. I guess I am wondering
though, does it make things like the
University of Michigan sentiment survey
take on renewed importance even though
it is sort of a disputed indicator of
exactly what it's measuring?
You know, of course, as you rightly said
at the beginning, right? You you try to
get everything you get from the data
perspective. So for example, ADP, when
you don't get the non-farm payrolls, you
really watch closer. But of course, you
need to take into account what kind of
indicators are there. And I think yeah,
for a certain period of time, you
probably can fly a bit blind from the
data perspective.
So you look at the markets at
diversification as you're saying.
But we have a clear view, as I said,
soft patch, but then increasing. And so
we would be very surprised if that's
changing. How do you deal strategically,
Christian, with things like the credit
line in Argentina, like this question of
companies that could get caught up in
the crosshairs of international disputes
as we're seeing this morning with the
likes of Qualcomm in China? I mean, how
do you deal with political threats that
are new and that could potentially
strike specific companies?
Yeah, look, the whole year was about
this already, right? So there's a lot of
discussion about tariffs, geopolitical
risks that came this year, but so far
the markets have done quite well. So I
think
it helps a lot to look at sectors. It
helps a look to look at companies that
work globally and how they are impacted.
And of course, what we have been seeing
this year, what's not so much impacted
to a certain extent is the II trade. You
talked about this before. So from that
perspective, that's why we look at
earnings. And as long as we get them, I
think this trade is up and running and
that's clearly a driver for markets,
especially in the US. But then on the
other hand, we look at markets which
probably have so far been a negative
sentiment and sentiment is then turning
better and talking here from Germany we
had some weakening sentiment I think but
now the government has started to put
some measures in place and we do get
more calls from clients from outside
from Germany from Asia from the US as
well and so maybe we see a change in
sentiment here which would be positive
for markets. Christian Nolting of
Deutsche Bank thank you so much for
being with us. We hope you enjoy your
weekend. We were talking there about
Qualcomm and uh China came out this
morning opening an uninterest probe of
Qualcomm's autotalks deals. It just
highlights how this sort of
effort to try to gain leverage ahead of
any kind of talks between President
Trump and Xi Jinping is escalating and
moving to more industries.
>> We're going to see tit-for-tat every
single day until those two leaders sit
down and we saw a number of not just
Qualcomm but a number of salvos coming
out of Beijing overnight as long as well
as when it comes to ports and ships. So
we're going to see this tit-for-tat till
these two leaders sit down. What's
interesting what's so complicated for
Qualcomm probably why their shares are
down some 3% pre-market trading is
because they get almost half of their
revenue from China. So when China goes
after them it's a really big deal. And
this is the reason why it's becoming a
really fraught territory particularly in
the semiconductor space to get involved
and try to predict what the political
backdrops going to look like right now.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here's your Bloomberg Brief
with Yahaira Olanunlola. Hi Lisa. The US
has launched a bailout for Argentina
offering $20 in financing and carrying
out a rare intervention to prop up the
peso. Treasury Secretary Scott Morrison
announced the currency swap and
government purchases in a social media
post. Trump's support for Argentine
President Javier Milei comes ahead of
this month's midterm elections in
Argentina.
Meanwhile President Trump is doubling
down on his threats of sweeping cuts to
Democratic priorities as the US
government shutdown continues. Speaking
at a cabinet meeting Trump repeated his
warning of cutbacks while blaming
Democrats for the shutdown. Government
workers and military personnel are set
to miss paychecks today.
And Maria Corina Machado of Venezuela
has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize
for 2025. Machado winning for her work
promoting democracy and decades long
struggle against authoritarianism in
Venezuela. Known as Venezuela's iron
lady Machado has been in hiding for more
than 14 months after Nicolas Maduro
declared victory in the disputed 2024
elections. That's your Bloomberg Brief
Lisa. Thank you so much Yahaira. Up next
day 10 of the government shutdown.
We'll be cutting some very popular
Democrat programs that aren't popular
with Republicans frankly because that's
the way it works. They wanted to do this
so we'll get a little taste of their own
medicine. We have no idea who we're
dealing with over there. Ed Mills of
Raymond James joining us next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
It is day 10 of the government shutdown
and right now what you can see in
markets is just an inability to find
direction. So many crosswinds underneath
that we are essentially paralyzed at
on S&P 500 futures and Russell 2000
you're seeing a little bit of a lift and
maybe it's coming from the bond space.
If you take a look at what's going on in
210s and 30s you do see a rally led by
the long end. It comes after yesterday's
30-year auction that was not necessarily
a screaming buy in terms of just a
concession and yet you did seem to see
the internals really support demand for
the longer end yields. Those yields down
almost four basis points at 468.51.
Meanwhile the precious metal of the
moment is silver up more than 70% so far
this year up again this morning another
2.4% and Annmarie what I find
fascinating is this is a metal that
actually has an industrial use well
beyond just keeping in your basement and
feeling that you can sleep at night.
>> Yeah it's dual use. Usually when gold
rises sometimes the you know what's it
stepkid ugly duckling cousin silver also
rises along with it but to your point
there actually is a use case for silver
not just in a store value and asset so
it's also getting some love.
>> Yeah almost half of the demand is coming
from industrial uses. Under surveillance
this morning day 10 of the government
shutdown.
We'll be cutting some very popular
Democrat programs that aren't popular
with Republicans frankly because that's
the way it works. They wanted to do this
so we'll get a little taste of their own
medicine. We have no idea who we're
dealing with over there. Republicans
have voted repeatedly to pass a clean
non-partisan bill to reopen government.
We're not going to
do anything only good for health care.
We're we're really I think become the
party of good health care. Here's the
latest government workers preparing for
missed paychecks today as the shutdown
enters its 10th day. Congressional
leaders are still at a stalemate as
President Trump threatens sweeping cuts.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now.
Tyler do we have any sense of where the
potential plates of progress could come
from? Have there been any is there any
sign of progress?
Yeah hey Lisa good morning. At this
point there are no indications that
either side is letting up. Republicans
are really holding firm that they will
not negotiate until the government
reopens. Now our understanding is there
are informal bipartisan talks happening
on the hill but that leadership is not
engaged. For example this week we got
sort of an insight that there are some
discussions happening about what
potential structural reforms could look
like for the Affordable Care Act premium
subsidies such as a potential new income
limit in exchange for an extension to
those tax credits but leadership says
that they are not going to talk about
any of those changes until the
government ultimately reopens and
pressure is definitely mounting as you
mentioned today marks the first missed
paycheck for many federal workers and
I'll point out that the Senate left town
last night. They're not going to be back
until Tuesday. That is one day before
October 15th when many members of the
military could also potentially miss a
paycheck. Now our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that if this shutdown
extends into a third week which at this
point with the Senate out it looks
likely the US unemployment rate could
jump from 4.3 to 4.7% as furloughed
workers are counted as temporarily
unemployed which is just a good reminder
that 750,000
federal workers are expected to be
furloughed during the shutdown and Lisa
while we are talking about data
important to point out that a person
familiar tells us that the US Bureau of
Labor Statistics is calling back some of
its employees to prepare the September
CPI report that was also supposed to be
out next Wednesday. At this point it
does not look likely that they will make
that deadline but it is expected to be
released before the next FOMC meeting at
the end of the month. Tyler you asked
the President about troops getting paid
next week. We have a number of
organizations that represent the
National Guard that
represent the more than 1 million
currently serving active duty service
members writing to their House and
Senate representatives asking for a
standalone package. Is there any sight
on Capitol Hill that there is going to
be legislation to pay our troops?
Well President Trump told me Annmarie
that he would encourage Congress to pass
a standalone bill to pay our military.
He did say that he thinks that the issue
will be resolved by that October 15th
deadline but at this point House Speaker
Mike Johnson is holding pretty firm that
they are not going to put that up for a
vote. Republicans are really trying to
hold this line that they are not going
to negotiate. They want the Democrats to
pass exactly what's in front of them
which is that that clean stopgap measure
that would fund the government until
November
we have to see if the pressure mounting
will continue. The House Speaker did
hold a phone-in town hall yesterday on
C-SPAN where he heard from many many
members who were urging him to pass some
sort of standalone legislation but
Annmarie at this point we haven't gotten
any indications that that's going to
move. Tyler Kendall thank you so much.
We'll be speaking with you throughout
the morning. Meanwhile Ed Mills of
Raymond James writing this a short-term
continuing resolution is likely though
we cannot rule out a prolonged shutdown
through November. Ed joins us now for
more. Ed can you just lay it down what
actually is happening? Who's offering
who what and whether there is actually
genuine negotiations on both sides or
whether this is just all politics.
Lisa at this point I'd say this is
mostly politics. I don't think much is
being offered in either direction
and in many ways this is the shutdown
that isn't. If you're a government
worker if you're a member of the
military this is very real. This is very
personal. But let's look at what else is
happening in Washington DC. Yesterday
the Federal Reserve held a community
bank deregulation summit. We have a
peace deal potentially here in the
Middle East. We have a Trump Xi summit
later this month. The Senate actually
passed the defense authorization bill.
It is almost as if there is a government
shutdown that's just in the background.
That we're not really focused on that.
Previous government shutdowns it was
like a 24/7 news story. It was really
the only thing that was going on in
Washington DC. So to the extent that it
almost feels normal
that there isn't the pressure to reopen
it. There isn't the kind of all hands on
deck approach here really does push me
to say when you ask me about the timing
right now Lisa I'm taking the over.
Ed though I hear what you're saying but
if you listen to that C-SPAN call
yesterday with Speaker Johnson you had
Americans around the world especially
individuals whose families are active
duty service members incredibly angry.
Do you think at some point, if this
lingers, they're going to be forced to
make moves?
Yes, I mean it's we're going to reopen
and I think that when we've asked you
know, kind of questions and we've gotten
you know, kind of this you know, at
Raymond James here, what actually forces
this open? It is missed paychecks. It is
an actual impact on day-to-day lives of
Americans. We're starting to see slow
down at airports as TSA lines get
longer, as kind of flight delays get
longer, that pressure builds. We
probably need to see one of the
political parties make a mistake. Right
now, Republicans get slightly more blame
in most polls,
but it is kind of not overly skewed in
one direction or another. Democrats feel
like they are fighting the good fight
and they feel that having a conversation
about health care is important and and
they feel as if they have this fight and
they have a situation where kind of
Americans who are on the Affordable Care
Act get significant increases, that they
will politically benefit from that. I go
back to the 2018 elections. How did
Democrats win the midterm election when
Trump was in office the first time? Make
it about health care. That's what
Democrats are doing here. So, right now,
these battle lines are still being
drawn. The pressure hasn't built to the
point where someone feels as if it is
absolutely necessary to reopen because
so much else is going on and so much
bigger fights are happening here in DC.
But Ed, just to be clear because former
Speaker Nancy Pelosi said it wasn't a
clean CR and then minority leader Hakeem
Jeffries was on our program yesterday
saying it wasn't a clean CR. What is on
offer is a clean stopgap funding
measure. Is that correct?
Yeah, there's some most of it is a clean
CR. It's a 7-week extension of the
current budget. There were some
additional things that were added on
there, especially more kind of security
support for kind of members of Congress
and other government officials.
And traditionally, Democrats have always
said, you know, if it is a clean CR, you
vote for it. The Republicans have not
voted in the past sometimes for those
clean CRs and Democrats have been able
to message that. But Democrats are also
saying because there are some cliffs
coming, especially on the subsidies for
the Affordable Care Act, Obamacare,
that that doesn't make it clean. Right
now, it's mostly a rhetorical fight.
This here is kind of something that
Democrats you know, kind of like the
fact that it is mostly clean, so they
can talk about health care rather than
often times we're we're dealing with all
of the appropriations bills and we have
messages across the board on what's in
there on health care, what's there on
education, what's there on defense. So,
I think Democrats strategically decided
to do it when it was mostly clean, so
that they can say it's about health care
rather than all the other things that
are part of this government budget. How
palatable is it Ed for people in the
United States not to be receiving
paychecks from the federal government at
the same time that the US is offering
a $20 billion swap line to Argentina?
Yeah, it's politically difficult. I
mean, I think that when we
look back to the longest ever government
shutdown, that was 35 days back in 2018.
And the reason it lasted that long was
the Defense Department was already
funded. I think that the military
members in particular
are going to be something that the
American people have a hard time not
getting paid. What I'm watching for is
there going to be something that
President Trump tries to do creatively
to pay even outside the appropriations
process. We've already seen the
president say that he's going to use
section 232 tariff money to fund Wick
and snap benefits for
women and children
economic need.
Is he going to use some of that funding
for the military? Is there going to be a
push to kind of change the conversation
here? One thing I've always noticed
about President Trump is he does not
stay on the defensive very much. He
always goes on the offensive. Yesterday
in the cabinet meeting, he was
threatening Democrats about different
programs that he would Does he take that
money and move it over to the military?
Does he find a way, even if he's going
to get sued, to fund the military to try
to put pressure on Democrats to say that
lever is not going to be the thing that
gets you to reopen this. You have to
come to the table and do something
different if you want me to negotiate.
Ed Mills of Raymond James, thank you so
much for taking the time this morning.
Coming up, AJ Rodojaksha of Barclays on
what's driving gold's record run. Plus,
Danny Burger with your morning movers of
Applied Digital soaring on a new data
center deal. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Stocks struggling to find some
direction, understandably given how many
different aspects are at play
geopolitically, but really underpinned
by the idea that we are near record
highs still. So, not exactly
really doing too badly. 6779 on S&P
futures going nowhere on the Nasdaq.
Russell 2000 seeing a little bit of a
bounce up two-tenths of a percent coming
alongside the move that is going on in
bonds, where you do see a rally,
particularly into the long end with
yields down something like four per-
four basis points, 4.69%
across the board seeing fairly strong
options on the 10-year and the 30-year
this this week. I mean, yes, a
concession, but still the internal
demand demand dynamics have been good.
Meanwhile, in gold yesterday, a pause
after a huge screaming run of about 50%
so far this year. Today trying to pick
it back up up about six-tenths of a
percent as people take a look at where
they can find a haven amid geopolitical
instability 3 hours away from the cash
open. Here is your morning movers with
Danny Burger. Danny. Hey Lisa, Qualcomm
getting hit this morning, down 2.7%.
News from state regulators in China that
Qualcomm is being probed over
anti-monopoly monopoly charges. It
bought Autotalks earlier this year. It's
an auto tech company that's cars talk to
each other essentially for safety. The
allegation here is potentially that they
did not properly report that
acquisition. So again, shares down
almost 3%. Also on the move this morning
is Applied Digital, up nearly a quarter,
up 22%. This is a data center company
reported earnings are really strong, but
within that, it also said that CoreWeave
was signing one of its leases. Again,
there's this really big hype around the
AI trade and finding out who the winners
are. Data centers, especially with
Microsoft saying yesterday that there is
still a data center crunch that will
persist into 2026, making these
companies attractive for investors this
morning. Finally, things on the
downside, Levi Strauss. Lisa, I know
you've been talking about this this
morning, the fact that Levi's beat on
its earnings. Not only that, but its
profitability also held up and improved.
The issue is the CEO saying that tariffs
are starting to bite. Clearly not
showing up in their margins yet
considering that they've been able to
find more profitable channels and raise
prices and have consumers buy it. Still,
these shares have run up a lot a lot to
date, so shares falling nearly 7% this
morning, Lisa. Danny, thank you so much.
I'm so glad that you really went into
that because to me it was a fascinating
story and I wonder how much this is
investors just not believing their
better than expected projections
considering some of the tariff
headwinds. And also, these are the
tariff headwinds now when most
economists are coming on the program and
they're saying a lot of companies were
able to absorb more than half of the
tariff impact and next year is going to
be the pass-through. Do Levi's have to
even raise prices again come 2026?
>> Which is what we're hearing from some
CFOs with the question around whether
consumers will absorb it and in Levi's
case, so far, they are doing just that.
On our radar this morning, talk about
political instability around the world.
Japan's decades-old ruling coalition has
officially collapsed. The Komeito party
ending its 26-year partnership with LDP,
delivering a major blow to Sanae
Takaichi's bid to become the country's
first female prime minister. You are
seeing just a touch of support
underneath the yen with this idea that
maybe this would be the key indicator
that would force the Bank of Japan to
hike rates later this year, should there
be a bigger sell-off, a bigger weakening
in the yen. President Donald Trump
announcing plans to travel to Israel for
the expected release of hostages under
the Gaza peace deal. The president
saying he hopes to be there when the
hostages return next week and added he
might address the Israeli parliament,
the Knesset. The US meanwhile launching
an effort to stabilize Argentina's
economy. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent announcing a $20 billion
currency swap in a rare market
intervention to help prop up the sharply
declining Argentine peso, which really
is fascinating considering Emery that we
wondered whether he would make good on
this or whether it was just a promise of
some sort of swap line that would be
enough to really stave off any kind of
massive weakening. I was with the
Treasury Secretary in April when he made
his first trip internationally and it
was to Argentina to show this support
for Milei. And I said, I asked him, are
you going to potentially do something
when it comes to more of a swap line,
what kind of tools on the table? And
they said, no, not at this moment.
Clearly, things got bad for when it
comes to Argentina in the markets. And
mostly that's because a lot of
individuals and investors are concerned
that more leftist policies might creep
in if Milei doesn't succeed, which is
why you have this. But you bring up the
point, the political blowback at home is
going to be very challenging. We saw
this with text messages from the
agricultural secretary Rawlins to the
Treasury Secretary, if you want to make
America great again, then why are you
buying pesos, especially when Argentina
now has an avenue to sell soybean
cargoes to China and they're not buying
US cargoes. And it's a pretty narrow bet
that that Javier Milei will win and that
will fortify some sort of stability in
the peso given that he just had a pretty
blow pretty big political blow in a
recent local election. So, how much will
this swap line continue should he lose
the next election later this month?
Right. And the problem they have that if
they don't have Milei in Latin America
the way the Trump administration sees
this is their concern is there will be
more a government that is more friendly
when it comes to China. And the Treasury
Secretary made this very clear last
night. He said what they want to do in
Latin America is make sure that these
countries are turning to Washington not
Beijing in times of trouble. Yeah, so
this to me is really the key question
and honestly I want to rip up the script
and go right to our next guy is Ajay
Rajadaksha of Barclays to talk about
what we're seeing with respect to the
international picture. How much that's
edifying what we're seeing in the gold
trade but also how difficult it's been
to really make some sort of
international call. When you take a look
like Argentina, how much does that
complicate the emerging market bet? I
mean how much does that complicate
understanding what the calculus is
there? It does but
uh it depends on the asset class you're
talking about. So on the bond side it
does matter hugely but on the equity
side remember Lisa you're talking about
uh an EM equity asset class that is
primarily dependent on what China does.
You know, not so much Argentina, not so
much Brazil, not even at this point
India. You know, Indian equities have
basically traded water for a while but
the Chinese equity market has been on a
tear and that I think is the is the wind
beneath EM's wings for the foreseeable
future. So there's noise, yes, but this
is not going to upset the EM equity
rally. This is fascinating cuz how much
is China the wind beneath the sails of
gold? We've been talking all about gold
as being this debasement trade but
you're not seeing it necessarily in
Treasury yields cuz you are seeing some
kind of demand at the auctions. Is this
really just central bank buying led by
China that's fueling in a narrative
that's taking on a life of its own?
It is partly central bank buying and it
started in 2022 when the West froze
Russia's FX reserves. We saw an
immediate pick up, you know, almost
doubled amount of buying in 2022 from
central banks relative to 2021 and it
has not let up since. Central banks have
bought over 1,000 tons of gold each year
starting in 2022. They used to be at
barely 300 to 400 tons. But part of it
is also the lack of supply.
Weirdly enough despite gold prices
basically tripling in the last 5 to 6
years, the amount of supply, you know,
call it geopolitical issues, call it
geological issues, but the amount of
supply really hasn't picked up anywhere
near as much as you expect. And then
there is there is the third thing what I
think you're referring to which is just
uneasiness about the global financial
and monetary order.
When it comes to that uneasiness and you
the central bank buying, what what's the
impact of that cuz that means then
they're not buying as many US
Treasuries? That is actually a very
clear impact. So for the first time late
last year by our estimates the
amount of FX reserves globally held
moved to a majority not a majority but
more FX reserves were held in gold and
US Treasuries which is not something
that has happened for a long long long
time.
Um like like uh you guys just said it is
true that it's not shown up in in a lack
of auction demand for example. But if
you look at swap spreads
and where they are right now, they still
seem to be screaming that on a relative
basis
you know, sovereign debt is still not as
much in favor as as all-in yield levels
would suggest. Do you call this the
world de-dollarizing?
No, I think the world it's not so much
one currency versus another. You know,
because let's face it there is not an
alternative to the dollar. The renminbi
is not an alternative. The euro has its
own problems. The yen used to be a safe
haven but has struggled in the last
three or four The Swiss franc, you know,
quite frankly is very expensive, too
small. So it's not de-dollarizing as in
the world moving to other currencies but
the world absolutely is worried about
how much we are awash both in fiat
currencies as well as in the trillions
of dollars of sovereign debt with the
promise of trillions more to come. That
that is the uneasiness that I think
investors are turning to gold for. You
know, I wonder if we're just trying to
create narratives around a liquidity
picture that people don't fully
understand. And as the head of research
at Barclays, I'm sure you track the
liquidity pictures and the idea that
you're having the fiscal and the
monetary engines kind of firing at the
same time. How much do all assets end up
trading in tandem? And I know I
shouldn't make too much about this but
the fact that stocks, bonds, and gold
also sold off yesterday sort of hinted
at this question around liquidity almost
as much as some of the narratives that
we're trying to put around them. So I'm
less worried about
Oh, you're talking about too much
liquidity in the system. Or and then
being withdrawn and how much that ends
up really kind of creating the dynamic
in markets well beyond any question
around geopolitics or loss in US
exceptionalism, weakening growth beyond
etc.
>> So so I think yesterday just to address
that you know, smaller question first
was not about
liquidity partly because like I said
gold was so overbought. The RSI I have
just never seen it you know, so when
something goes up 50% it's not you know,
crazy for it to take a little bit of a
breather. You know, equities I would say
the same thing. Bonds we are running
according to the Atlanta Fed at a 3.8%
quarter-on-quarter growth number
annualized for the third quarter. That
is a nominal GDP print of over 6%. At
some point bonds are supposed to start
to reflect that and I think that is what
what they were doing. But I do think
that the Fed is laser focused on the
amount of bank reserves it starts to
take out of the system as it continues
with QT.
Now the problem that they have is the
way that you know there is a problem is
when there is a problem. You know, we're
all guessing at what is the correct
level of bank reserves. But if I had to
guess I think they would err on the side
of caution meaning leave too many
reserves rather than too few and that
again is is gold, Bitcoin, silver
positive. So is it very difficult to be
bearish on anything right now
considering that that's the backdrop of
liquidity?
It's hard to be bearish given the
economic outlook. You know, we've turned
You notice neither of you guys have
asked me a single question on tariffs
and there's a reason for that. You know,
we we have turned a page on on what used
to matter. There's this massive AI boom
which even if it ends up with you know,
some problems along the way, this amount
of spending is there's names Lisa that I
never knew. Colossus, Rainiers, Target.
These are all fantastical names except
that they are all gigantic data centers.
Each one of them have the size of
Manhattan. And that spending is not
going to go away and while that is going
on I just see no reason for a big
pullback in most asset classes. Ajay
Rajadaksha, thank you so much for being
with us. Ajay Raja Rajadaksha of
Barclays joining us here in New York.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg Brief with Yahaira Annen.
Yahaira. Hi Lisa. The Senate passed a
bill that would require top chip makers
including Nvidia and AMD to ensure that
US companies get priority access to
their products before China. The bill's
path to becoming law remains unclear as
the House passed its version without
clarifying language on export controls.
Lawmakers must now negotiate a final
package.
Meanwhile, a grand jury has indicted New
York Attorney General Letitia James over
fraud claims after calls from President
Trump for her prosecution. Court filings
show she was charged with bank fraud and
making false statements to financial
institutions. In a statement, James
called the charges baseless and a
weaponization of the justice system by
the president.
And Paramount Skydance CEO David Ellison
says more content is key for his company
going forward. Speaking at Bloomberg's
Screentime conference in Los Angeles,
Ellison made the case for what he sees
as the best path forward to keep up
engagement and bring value to
shareholders.
You actually need more content to yield
more engagement. More movies, more
television series, more to get to scale
because you need that content, you need
that great storytelling to yield
engagement.
Ellison also said he sees more
consolidation ahead in the media space.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa. Thank
you so much, Yahaira. I've got to say I
feel like there's a lot of choices. Just
saying. Up next, aiding our allies.
Argentina is a beacon in Latin America.
We do not want a failed state. We are
going to use Argentina as an example. We
back up our allies. Doug Rediker of
International Capital Strategies joins
us next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Stocks looking for direction this
morning after a pretty big week. More
gains until yesterday when suddenly
there was a halt particularly led by a
number of the broader stocks. A question
here about tariffs, the ramifications
for some of the retailers in particular.
Under surveillance this morning, aiding
our allies.
Argentina is a beacon in Latin America.
We do not want a failed state. So this
isn't a bailout? Sorry, it's not a
bailout at all. There's there's no money
being being transferred. We are going to
use Argentina as an example. We back up
our allies. President Milei has done the
right thing. He is also a great ally for
the US. He'll be coming to the Oval
Office next Tuesday. Here's the latest.
The US finalizing a $20 billion currency
swap framework with Argentina's central
bank. Bloomberg's Michael McKee joins us
now. Mike, can you just give us some
perspective on what swap lines like this
have been used for in the past, how
frequently they are used by the United
States?
Well, they did two things yesterday.
They finalized the swap lines and they
also intervened in the currency markets
to buy Argentine pesos. Those two things
related, but not necessarily connected.
The US has bought foreign currencies
three times in the past before this
Argentina one to aid Japan twice and
once with the euro, but they haven't
done it since 2011. The swap line is an
interesting thing that we really don't
know a lot of details about at this
moment. Normally, swap lines are between
the Federal Reserve and the central
banks of other countries. The idea is to
be able to provide dollars when dollars
are short for companies in those
countries who have to pay back dollar
denominated loans. And what they do is
they send us certain amount of money.
Say Argentina would send 50 billion
dollars worth of pesos and we would give
them 50 billion dollars. We'd hold on to
the pesos and then we would send them
back and they'd send us the dollars back
when that's over. But this appears to be
a Treasury swap line and the details
haven't been really made public, but uh
it's maybe analogous to what happened in
the Mexican peso crisis where the
Treasury Department used the exchange
stabilization fund, the same thing that
they used yesterday to buy pesos
to basically guarantee Mexican debt.
They couldn't roll over their tesobonos,
so
the US guaranteed that the debt would be
good and they gave some money in swaps,
but not a whole lot. And then the
Mexicans guaranteed though that loan and
the guarantees from the US by pledging
oil money for collateral. We don't know
what Argentina's collateral would be or
how this would all work, but it does
look like what their goal is is to get
Milei through the next couple of weeks
until the congressional election down
there hoping that he can stay in power
and he can continue his
unpopular, but
the kind of reforms that the
administration wants to see made down
there. Michael McKee, thank you so much
for that perspective. Joining us now is
Doug Rediker of International Capital
Strategies who's been covering and
studying Argentina for a very long time.
Doug, were you surprised by what was
announced yesterday?
We we certainly had enough
um flagging that this was coming that I
guess I wasn't surprised. I I'm in
following on what Mike was just saying.
This is a unique use of the Treasury's
instruments under its control under the
ESF, the Exchange Stabilization Fund. In
that that law, the law that created the
ESF says it doesn't use the word swap.
It doesn't contemplate a swap. It says
actually there has to be an assured
means of repayment. And as Mike was just
saying, we haven't heard the details,
but the details are pretty important. So
I guess what surprises me is that the US
Treasury is effectively extending a loan
by another name. They're calling it a
swap, but it's actually a loan to
Argentina on terms that we don't know
about, but which seem as if they are
unique in the history of the ESF in that
we are lending US Treasury dollars to
Argentina in exchange for something that
seems to be at best
questionable equal value. A swap is we
lend you as as you guys were saying 50
billion dollars for 50 billion dollars
worth of pesos. The question is how do
you define what 50 billion dollars worth
of pesos really looks like? That's the
key.
Doug, why isn't the IMF doing this?
Well, the IMF has extended over 50
billion dollars, the largest program in
IMF history for the last several years.
They've been doing this over and over
and over again. It started back, you
know, 30, 40 years ago. I forget exactly
how many programs, but at this point the
most recent IMF program where the IMF
extended 20 billion dollars of
additional funding to Argentina with 12
billion paid up front was very difficult
to get through the IMF Executive Board
because this is the classic case of
throwing good money after bad. And so
the US put pressure on the managing
director and the board and they agreed
to do it. That doesn't mean it was the
wrong thing to do, but the idea was that
that 12 billion dollars was supposed to
be used to boost Argentina's reserves in
anticipation of exactly where we are
today. And instead of doing so, the
Milei regime, which is otherwise on
fiscal in particular done an admirable
job of trying to write the Argentina
ship, they just whiffed on this one.
They didn't use the dollars provided by
the IMF to boost their reserves. They
are by most accounts negative net
reserves today. And so when Scott
Bessent says this isn't a bailout, I
have to scratch my head and say how how
are you lending money without collateral
to a country that is negative net
reserves and viewing it as something
other than a bailout? It's a bailout.
>> Whatever you want to call it, the olive
branch that the United States is
extending to Argentina, is it enough to
stop the bleeding in the financial
markets in Argentina?
Well, I guess we'll see, but I'm not
convinced. I'm not convinced largely
because Secretary Bessent's argument on
Fox last night was that the peso is
actually undervalued. I don't think
you're going to find too many people who
believe that and I think the markets are
going to test that. So whether it is the
structure that they're undertaking, this
four Well, we don't know how much they
intervened yesterday, but the market
rumors were that the US intervened as
much as 400 million dollars worth of
buying pesos naked in the market. At
some point that's going to be tested by
the markets. Whether it is enough to get
them through the October 26th midterms
or not remains to be seen, but I have a
hard time thinking that the markets
aren't going to be scratching their
heads and taking their pencils out and
trying to test this whether it's today,
tomorrow, the next day, it's going to
happen. There is an argument though, and
this is what Secretary Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent is talking
about, that the US wants to increase its
presence in Latin America and have a
greater competition with China, which
has really increased its presence there.
I'm just wondering how instrumental you
view Argentina in that effort in terms
of what they're doing in terms of their
alliances already.
So geopolitically,
this administration, President Trump,
really has a spheres of influence
worldview and Western Hemisphere down
through Latin America is included in
that. So it's a high priority for this
administration, for this president to
try and exercise American dominance or
control over Latin America. And the big
impediment to that amongst other things
including the will of the people
themselves is the Chinese presence. In
Argentina,
Milei came in and was very strident in
his rhetoric against Argentina. I mean
sorry, against China. The problem is
what we started with, which is China has
an 18 billion dollar swap line
outstanding to Argentina. If Bessent
gets what he wants. If China says, you
know what, we're washing our hands of
this place. We're getting out of here.
Then from a matter of what that 20
billion dollar swap line is going to be
used for, that's almost dollar for
dollar simply replacing the 18 billion
dollars that China would be withdrawing.
So Argentina is actually no better off.
So we have to be aware that it might be
a little too late to simply aspire to
getting China out of Latin America and
out of Argentina because at this point
they're pretty deeply in. And are we as
a country really ready, willing and able
to put up that much money to say we're
going to replace every dollar of
investment and swap exposure that China
has in Argentina so that we are the big
fish in town. You know, that that
extends beyond Argentina. What are we
going to do in other countries in the
region where Argent where where the
governments are not so friendly to the
Trump administration. This is a big
thing to try and bite off. Doug Rediker
of International Capital Strategies,
thank you and look forward to continuing
the conversations next week at the IMF
and World Bank meetings. But this really
is a key question and when I was in Peru
last year, I was struck by how
significant the Chinese presence was
with Xi Jinping coming to open a port.
How much is the US willing to really
compete with that in order to get a
foothold on the copper reserves on the
other types of precious minerals. And
the Treasury Secretary said that as well
last night in this Fox News interview.
He talked about the recent export
controls that came, more of them from
China, and he said look to what
potentially mineral deals we can do in
Argentina. They want to bring these
economies closer together and almost was
a Draghi moment yesterday. Whatever
exceptional measures needed. Coming up
next, we speak with Katie Kaminsky of
Alpha Simplex, Tobin Marcus of Wolfe
Research, David Tinsley of Bank of
America Institute and Republican
Congressman French Hill. Good morning.
[Music]
I'm not sure that the Fed can fully
ignore what's going on with inflation.
>> There are risks that come from the
inflationary side. Cuts seem a little
premature. Short-term rates are pricing
more Fed easing over the course of the
next 12 months. The risk to look for
right now is can the Fed cut rates as
much as the market is presently
anticipating?
>> I think they cut again in part cuz they
may not get any more official data. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance heading into University of
Michigan Sentiment Survey Friday because
next week isn't CPI week and yesterday
wasn't jobless Thursday. And why not?
Well, the US government has shut down
for the 10th straight day with federal
workers starting to not receive
paychecks. And traders are reeling with
a slew of international political risks
given that the biggest headlines
probably are not coming in markets
because guess what? There is no data.
There's no data. We're still in this
data desert. The government is still
shut down. The one positive signal from
Washington, D.C. is the White House has
decided to deem some individuals at the
BLS essential. They are going to start
collecting the inflation data that we
should then have at the end of the
month. It'll be delayed, but we will get
the data. In the meantime, everyone is
grappling with other forms of data we
can use and you've been great on this
Lisa in terms of corporate America. What
are they telling us right now about the
health of the US economy and how
resilient this consumer is?
>> So, yesterday we got Delta, incredible
read of the US consumer and it pointed
to real resilience, a real strength, not
only at the front of the cabin but also
in the economy seats as well, a bit
weaker there, I suppose. Levi's though,
we keep pointing to that because we
haven't talked about tariffs. Ajay
Rajadhyaksha of Barclays pointed out
we're not asking about tariffs yet. Levi
has said they're going to see a bigger
than expected impact on the rest of the
world, even outside of China, something
like 20% in terms of the cost increase.
>> And how many more executives are
actually going to come out and say it so
bluntly?
What's happening? Quote, we have started
feeling the impact of tariffs. Remember
months ago when Amazon wanted to put the
tariff impact on the website and then
there was a huge huge drama between Jeff
Bezos and President Trump and there was
calls going on. Levi CEO saying we're
starting to feel the impact. What a lot
of analysts have come on this program
have saying, well, for the most part
companies have been eating it. What kind
of impact can we see in 2026? How
difficult is that going to be for the
Fed? And Levi's gave a sense of what
impact they were seeing in terms of
elasticity or consumer response to
increased prices and frankly, they're
absorbing them and that to me is going
to be a question for the Federal
Reserve. Meanwhile, market's not doing
much this morning which is really
telling given the fact that everybody's
gone home. John's been out today because
why should he be here since it's
University of Michigan Sentiment Survey
Friday.
>> He's answering the call. And we know
Yeah, he's answering the call. We know
how he feels about University of
Michigan Sentiment Survey.
Up just a touch in terms of futures, up
about less than a tenth of a percent.
You are seeing a little bit of dollar
weakness but really a dollar
strengthening underfoot that has been a
real sea change from what we had seen
for the rest of the year. And ten year
yields lower by about three basis
points, 4.10, 4.11 round up. Right now,
coming up this hour, Katie Kaminsky of
Alpha Simplex with Wall Street pressing
a pause on the latest record rally.
Tobin Marcus of Wolfe Research is
President Trump and US troops head over
to Israel and David Tinsley of Bank of
America Institute with a consumer
spending surge. We begin this hour with
futures struggling for direction with
stocks hovering around record levels.
Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex writing
this, the rally has been somewhat broad
with small cap with small cap ahead of
big tech. Despite this, there are still
concerns about the strength of the AI
theme. And Katie joins us now for more.
Katie, good morning. Good morning. So,
you're trying to find a trend. Is there
any trend in what we're looking at which
right now feels just incredibly
paralyzed? Well, I think the interesting
part is the only trend is all systems
go. Equities have continued to move. We
have been talking a lot about gold this
week. I know it reverted yesterday but
really it's this lots of headlines but
nothing moving the markets. Government
shutdown, everything is good and you
know, it's kind of confusing to me
sometimes. Well, yeah, I think I think
for all of us. I mean, when we take a
look at how
sort of bombastic some of the headlines
are and then you take a look at just
sort of this quiescence in markets. I am
wondering, one of the big movers has
been the dollar and we will get to gold
in a second but the dollar really has
seen a strengthening which has
questioned or threatened some of the
people who have big short positions on
the currency. Do you think that that
could be based on your
strategic research that could be the
beginning of something that really feels
like a dollar strengthening rally? Well,
I think it's definitely possible but we
also have to remember that we have rate
cuts on the horizon. So, that's
definitely going to be against the
dollar coming up but you have seen so
much pressure on the dollar this year
that there's a lot of extended
positioning and it's really moved so far
that I think it's moved out of a range
that people might be comfortable with.
So, that's why you're definitely seeing
that potential pop up in the dollar that
could continue especially if stocks were
to revert a little bit.
>> Is it also because of the timing? You
know, political paralysis in France, you
have an implosion of a 26 year tie up in
terms of the coalition government in
Japan. So, what else do you do if, you
know, you've already done too much in
gold, maybe it's time now to recalibrate
what's going on with the US dollar? This
is a really good point because I've been
getting a lot of interesting questions
about gold. People have been going into
gold with this idea that there's no real
safe haven to look for and maybe at some
point those are getting extended and
they're starting to think the dollar is
actually looking like it's still
somewhat of a safe haven especially if
we think that the news and headline risk
has kind of gone past us and the dollar
is still kind of that strong currency
that people see as that safe haven. But
also clients asking at a time when we
are in this data desert and we actually
don't know, hopefully the end of the
month, we really don't have an exact
pinpoint time frame and where we're
going to get the gold standard economic
data out of the BLS.
Well, this is a good question because I
think in the absence of data, people
seem to be perfectly happy which is
strange. Ignorance is bliss vibes? I
guess so. I mean, I you'd think that
people would be reacting. We don't know
what's going on, what the state is going
to be but instead the markets are just
so still so focused on AI's great for
the long term, US growth is still strong
and I just think it's going to take a
couple of interesting data points to
kind of change that narrative.
>> Do you think that there is any evidence
that that narrative should be different?
Right now, there isn't. I mean, that's
what I've been looking for and it I
think the interesting part is more when
to be once we have the situation where
growth is strong and we've had a
potential for overstimulation
that, you know, we're in a situation
where growth looks good, earnings look
good. Yet, if we start cutting rates,
that's a potential risk that I'm
thinking about and seeing is that then
you could see issues with treasuries.
So, demand for treasuries, potential
steepening in the yield curve which we
haven't seen yet but we did see last
month and you see that gold position is
the only indication that people are
little worried about maybe this is full
throttle, maybe we need to pull back. I
was reading a research paper yesterday
saying that that whole idea
of the dollar devaluation trade as being
represented by the gold is really
challenged by what we're seeing in the
yield space. The fact that we are seeing
demand at the long end of the yield
curve and you haven't seen that kind of
sell-off that you would expect. I mean,
how surprising has that been to you?
It's been very surprising because, you
know, in this particular environment,
you've seen almost no signal in fixed
income in terms of trends. It's been
sort of back and forth in terms of are
we going to eventually see steepening
then we see flattening. So, I think
we're going to need some sort of
catalyst and some sort of realization.
So, things like CPI are very important
to understand that narrative and we're
not going to know what that is. So, that
means that surprise or potential
obstacle for bonds may just be delayed
which could actually make it more
extreme. Yeah, it's been confusing
especially as we talk about the AI theme
and we talk about electricity costs. We
talk about the likes of Levi. I mean, if
you look at the anecdotes, you can point
to a whole different nodes of a group of
nodes of inflation whether it's Levi's
increasing prices on jeans that we saw
and people
actually absorbing them. The only
argument here is housing. And then I
guess it's sort of the question of
whether housing and sort of the lack of
a rebound there can provide a tailwind
to treasury market in a way that
single-handedly upholds it. I mean, how
much are you looking at indicators like
that much more than you have in the
past? Oh, I think that's an important
point because I always remember that
inflation is the greatest enemy of
bonds, right? And so, if we start to see
more data, especially more idiosyncratic
areas, it's just
I mean, you highlighted this perfectly.
It's in some areas but not in others.
That means that it's not just a, you
know, broad-based inflation effect and
it's also something we haven't
experienced before. So, this tariff,
cutting rates, overstimulating the
economy, we don't know where that
inflation is going to come out and
inflation is very insidious. It can come
in some places at one point and then not
be observable until later in another
sector of the economy. So, it makes
looking at multiple data sources like
housing or retail even more important.
So, not just the inflation number itself
but drilling that down. The Fed chair
has talked about the fact that they
well, basically he's now re-anchored the
Fed to the bias to the labor market and
almost said you can look through these
inflation prints.
Is that going to haunt them in 2026?
It's quite possible because I think
inflation is a very insidious force and
it will definitely show up where it
hurts most which is the bond market.
That's where you're going to see that
impact.
Um, I do think there's been, you know,
there's always a delay between how you
see the reaction and the response with
inflation. So, it's also hard to tell at
this point but it's definitely a risk.
Could it be a place where the Fed
actually start actually considering
hiking interest rates even though
politically we know that there is a move
to make a Fed that's more dovish? I
think that's a very low probability
event just given the trajectory of
sentiment with the Fed and all these
questions about Fed independence but,
you know, should we move to a point
where, let's say, growth continues to be
strong, the markets are still moving
strongly, rates go down, we have some
overstimulation then a pop up inflation,
they're going to be in a situation where
they have to answer that and people, all
people, most people do not like
inflation because you feel it every day.
So, for now, it just sounds like you put
it all together, your highest conviction
is be long because there's nothing else
to be.
I'd say yes.
Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex Group,
thank you so much. Really appreciate
your time and a lot of people seem to be
saying stay long until it becomes a
bubble and then get out but we're not
there just yet. Let's get to an update
on stories elsewhere this morning. Here
is your Bloomberg Brief with you, Hira
Anwar. Hi, Lisa. French President
Emmanuel Macron is expected to pick a
new Prime Minister by tonight following
the resignation of Sebastian Lecornu
earlier this week. France's caretaker
Finance Minister Roland Lescure says the
country is on course to meet its budget
promises to the European Union even
after outgoing Le Cornu indicated there
will be less fiscal consolidation next
year than previously planned.
Meanwhile, Israel's security cabinets
and the negotiating chief for Hamas
signed an agreement to end their
two-year-long war. Iran-backed Hamas is
set to return all the remaining hostages
held in Gaza and in return Israel is due
to release almost almost all jailed
Palestinians, plus allow a ramp-up of
aid to Gaza through United Nations
agencies and other international bodies.
And Microsoft's data center crunch will
continue into the new year as shortages
of physical space and servers persist.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg new
subscriptions for Azure cloud service
are restricted in some crucial server
farm hubs. A lack of servers to rent out
to customers has been a recurring
concern for cloud providers. That's your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Yahaira. And it's the reason why
they say maybe it's better to over
invest than not invest enough even if
you end up overpaying. Up next, peace in
the Middle East.
Peace in the Middle East. We secured the
release of all of the remaining hostages
and they should be released on Monday or
Tuesday. I'm going to
try and make a trip over. We're going to
try and get over there. Tobin Marcus of
Wolfe Research joining us next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Markets looking for something to chew on
without any official data sources. Maybe
they'll chew on University of Michigan
later this morning. Maybe that's why
John called out. What we're looking at
right now is a rally because futures
tend to do that. This morning we're
seeing about a 10th of a percent gain on
the S&P and Nasdaq. Up 3/10 on the
Russell. Some headlines coming out of
CNBC reporting that the race to become
the next Fed chair is now down to five
from 11. The candidates are ones that we
know well. Fed Vice Chair for
Supervision Michelle Bowman, uh Fed
Governor Christopher Waller, Kevin
Hassett, who of course is the director
of the National Economic Council, and
then Rick Reader over at BlackRock is
also one of those selected with Kevin
Warsh as well, a former Fed Governor.
So, the two names that stand out to me
is Rick Reader because he also got a
pretty significant shout out in the
Financial Times report from people close
to the matter that have been part of
these discussions and the interviews the
Treasury Secretary is holding. And
Mickey Bowman because Mickey Bowman has
come to the Fed and really talked about
wanting to get back to the basics, not
what the Treasury Secretary called
mission creep. Also, the focus she has
on regional banks. This has been an
administration that continuously says
Wall Street has done well for decades.
We want to focus on Main Street. That is
someone who brings regional bank
experience and could be an interesting
pick cuz we already know what's going on
with the Kevins and Governor Waller.
Yeah, I do think it's interesting to
have Rick Reader there. Mickey Bowman
has been on the Fed and definitely has
been a stalwart behind view that the
administration seems to agree with. It's
interesting that we haven't gotten one
already because a Fed chair nominee
given the fact these names have been in
the mix for a long time. Right, how has
the president not just blurted out who
he's decided on? But
I find this administration no longer has
the urgency to talk about the Fed chair
the way they did it over the summer
because guess what? Jay Powell's cutting
interest rates. Meanwhile, under
surveillance this morning, peace in the
Middle East.
We reached a momentous breakthrough in
the Middle East, something that people
said was never going to be done.
Uh we ended the war in Gaza and really
on a much bigger basis created peace.
Peace in the Middle East. We secured the
release of all of the remaining hostages
and they should be released on Monday or
Tuesday and that'll be a day of joy. I'm
going to
try and make a trip over. We're going to
try and get over there. Here's the
latest. President Trump heading to the
Middle East on Sunday as Israel and
Hamas agree to end the two-year war in
Gaza. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us. Now, Tyler, do we have a sense of
what President Trump wants to do when he
goes over to Israel and how fragile the
ceasefire still is?
Yeah, hey Lisa. Well, we are still
waiting on official confirmation from
the White House on President Trump's
itinerary, but he himself has said that
he will visit Israel and that he's been
invited to speak in front of the
Knesset. He's also previously suggested
that he could make a stop in Egypt where
we know that this final round of
negotiations took place. Now, the
Israeli government approved the
ceasefire agreement overnight and it's
actually our understanding that
President Trump's special envoy Steve
Watzkow alongside his son-in-law Jared
Kushner actually attended the Israeli
cabinet meeting in what was considered
to be a sign that this White House was
very determined to see this over the
finish line. But as you mentioned, there
are still a lot of big questions here
including will the ceasefire hold? What
will that future reconstruction of Gaza
look like? As well as what is going to
happen when it comes to that demand that
Hamas disarm? Still, the administration
is leaning heavily on regional partners.
We heard President Trump yesterday in
his cabinet meeting thank these
countries by name saying Qatar, Egypt,
as well as Turkey have really played an
instrumental role. And we know they're
going to play a role in the security
forces that are going to be on the
ground as well because Lisa, yesterday a
senior administration official confirmed
that 200 US troops will be traveling
into Israel. They're not expected to go
into Gaza, but rather set up this
coordination center where they where
they will help to enforce and oversee
security as well as the distribution of
humanitarian aid and they will also be
supplemented by these other regional
forces there on the ground. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall, great work as always.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Joining us now is Tobin Marcus of Wolfe
Research. And Tobin, some of these
international out reaches come at a
rather awkward time domestically
considering that those troops going over
with President Trump may not get a
paycheck in the next couple of weeks.
I'm just wondering how this is being
read domestically even as it is a great
victory when it comes to peace at least
for now in the Middle East.
Yeah, so certainly the the peace deal is
a a genuine breakthrough. I think to the
extent that it holds, it's a huge
accomplishment and it's going to play
well domestically as well. You know, I
think the questions domestically are are
many of the same ones that Tyler just
flagged.
Are we actually going to see Hamas
disarm, which they not have not really
committed to doing even though they're
on board with the earlier, you know,
phases of the agreement in terms of
hostage exchanges and so forth. And if
Hamas does not disarm, does not
quote-unquote decommission their weapons
in the the language of the peace deal,
um
you know, will Israel really be willing
to indefinitely suspend
operations absent that step? So, I think
those longer-term questions are still
there, but for now a very welcome
breakthrough.
Yesterday, Caroline Levitt was quote
tweeting Fox News which said the US
troops are headed to Israel to support
the historic peace deal. And she said
this is not true when taken out of
context that the 200 US personnel will
be tasked with monitoring the peace
agreement. Is the administration going
to face some blowback given the fact
that President Trump has promised not to
entangle the US in international
conflicts?
Yeah, I don't think that there's going
to be
a sort of major long-term US
peacekeeping role here. Again, there's
lots of elements of this that are still
up in the air, but I think that the the
political resistance to, you know,
indefinitely having US troops on the
ground in a sort of an enforcement or
operational role is going to be
sufficiently high that I don't think
President Trump will want to do it. He's
always resisted putting boots on the
ground to a meaningful extent even in
situations where he's been happy to
conduct air operations during both his
first term and his second. So, I think
he's going to be very wary of extending
the US directly into this. When it comes
to active duty service members including
those 200 US personnel that are headed
to Israel, will they get paid next week,
Tobin?
Increasingly, it seems like the answer
is no with the Senate having decided
yesterday that they're going home for
the long weekend after the vote that
they took yesterday on the National
Defense Authorization Act.
There's not really
sort of realistic story you can tell
about Congress passing something that
gets the government reopened in time to
get those troops paid. So, I think the
only question about whether or not
they'll they'll be able to avoid missing
that paycheck is if the administration
can work out something using mandatory
funding from the big beautiful bill to
pay them rather than the normal
discretionary appropriations. That's
been in conversation throughout the
shutdown. There's been resistance to
that on the hill. We haven't seen any
plan to that effect from the
administration. So, I wouldn't count on
that happening, but I think that's the
only remaining possibility since it it
sure does look like the shutdown is
going to extend past the point that
would preclude those paychecks. Will
that be a pressure point for the
government to reopen?
It's been one of the dates that a lot of
people in Washington have circled, you
know, going back to September when we
were going into the shutdown even more
so since it started this
October 15th military payday. Um you
know, at this point it looks like
something that's going to apply pressure
after it happens. People will start
hearing those complaints. You know,
presumably members of Congress will
start getting calls from their
constituents with a very wide footprint
of active duty service service members
across states and congressional
districts rather than something that
they're sort of afraid to do in advance.
I think one of the interesting political
elements of the shutdown has been
that the instigating party is not really
getting the lion's share of the blame
when you look at the polling. Um it's
been somewhat surprising that, you know,
most polls have said the Republicans
have sort of the plurality of the blame
although there's plenty to go around
even though Democrats are the ones who
are making the policy demand. And so, I
think that creates a situation where
even as you look at these consequences
like missed paychecks, like air traffic
disruptions, if neither side really
feels like they're at fault or they're
going to be blamed for it, it doesn't
create the same urgency. So, it's not
like Democrats or Republicans are
looking at that missed payday and
thinking we can't possibly do that
because they're hoping the other side
will get the blame. So, it does look
like we're we're stretching on a little
while longer. I'm still optimistic that
we'll get a solution next week, but uh
the odds of an even longer shutdown do
seem to be rising. Tobin, to that point,
I mean, yes, the Democrats might not be
getting the bulk of the blame for now.
Do they have a cohesive message though
other than we just want to fight?
Uh I mean, their message is healthcare,
which is sort of the one issue that they
still know how to message about
in moment when the party in general has
been in shambles. Uh you know, they're
the one thing they still have the muscle
memory for is attacking Republicans for
cutting healthcare, and that's really
the message that they've set up here. Um
So, you know, and I I think we have
seen, as we expected uh going into the
shutdown, that there would be increasing
nervousness across, you know, various
parts of the Republican Party uh about
the uh rise in premiums as these
Affordable Care Act subsidies
uh expire, and as we go into open
enrollment, you know, that the political
reality of that has gotten more concrete
for a lot of the Republicans who are
staring it down. And so, we've gotten
these interesting moves like um
conservative firebrand Marjorie Taylor
Greene who's sort of going out publicly
and breaking with leadership and saying,
"We really need to fix this." And and,
you know, leadership didn't really tell
us that this was coming. But Tobin,
isn't this a policy error on the
Democratic side? These enhanced
subsidies have an expiration date based
off the policy in the law they wrote.
Well, sure. I mean, this is a
time-honored move uh including both the
2017 tax bill and the tax bill that they
just passed that the Republicans also
did, which is figuring that you'll be
able to get an extension of your more
popular policies because no one's going
to be willing to let them expire. So,
that was the Democratic calculation in
2022. These were last extended in the
Inflation Reduction Act, and the
limiting factor that point was what Joe
Manchin would be willing to vote for.
They got him to go along with 3 years of
these subsidies. They couldn't get him
to go along with making them permanent.
And so, here we are. So, you know, at
some level it's an error, but if they
managed to get some deal on this, then
it will have played out largely as they
they kind of hoped back in 2022, the
same way the Republicans, you know,
successfully calculated in 2017 that
they were going to be able to get these
nominally temporary tax cuts extended
when they came up for expiration. Tobin
Marcus, Wolfe Research. Thank you so
much. And right now, we are still in
that data desert as a result of the
government shutdown. Although to your
point, they are bringing people back
from the BLS in order to get that CPI
print to be able to calculate Social
Security checks at the end of the month.
>> And if they are bringing people back, I
wonder if they will deem essential the
labor market report before the Fed meets
if they're still in a government
shutdown and potentially release it cuz
that's ready to go. We're just waiting
for someone to push the button. Yeah,
and in the meantime, everyone in the
market is taking time off evidently
because right now we're seeing a pretty
quiet start to the last trading day of
the week. Coming up next uh is going to
be David Tinsley of Bank of America
Institute to really get a check on
consumer spending. Guess what? It's
staying solid. Plus Danny Burger with
your morning movers, Stellantis shares
higher as shipments bounced back in the
third quarter. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Futures have a lift after some time this
morning looking up a little bit as you
do see a rally into the bond space. And
as a number of people say, "Look, how
much can you get bearish amid the cash
machine that is artificial
intelligence?" S&P and Nasdaq futures
both up about a tenth of a percent.
Russell 2000 really seeing the
outperformance up about a third of a
percent because of the bond space and
the rally that we're seeing there. If
you take a look at two
twos, tens, and 30s, you can see the
long end driving the rally. 30-year bond
yields now 4.68%
down about three basis points after
yesterday's auction that was better than
expected, but across the curve, a rally
in. 2 hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Danny
Burger. Danny. Hey Lisa, a tough morning
for Qualcomm. Shares are down 1 and a
third percent. It is off the lows that
we saw premarket, but this was after
Chinese authorities saying that they
were probing Qualcomm over anti-monopoly
measures. It has to do with a company
they acquired called Autotalks. It does
auto technology. It allows cars to talk
to each other and concerns that they
didn't properly report that acquisition.
So again, Qualcomm shares are off this
morning. Elsewhere in this market, we
see Applied Digital up nearly 25%. A
huge move. As you were saying, Lisa, can
you really be bearish on this oppor-
when you have this opportunity of AI?
This is a data center company. Really
solid earnings, and they said that they
had a new lease agreement for CoreWeave.
So, you're involved in this digital
economy, investors snap up shares.
Again, shares almost up by a quarter. Uh
finally this morning to the upside,
Stellantis up 1.1%.
Its deliveries rose 13%, and that was
led by North America. Uh those
deliveries up 35%,
and it wasn't just small cars they were
buying. It was big cars. Apparently, the
re- introduction of their V8 Ram truck,
whatever that is. I'm in New York, so I
don't know trucks. But apparently, that
was wildly popular. So, those positive
sales sending shares higher, Lisa. Thank
you so much, Danny. Uh appreciate that.
On our radar this morning, the US
finalizing a $20 currency swap framework
with Argentina's central bank. The
Treasury directly purchasing pesos to
help stabilize the exchange rate and
prop up Argentinian President Javier
Milei who faces reelection uh later this
month. Meanwhile, the Senate passing
legislation limiting AI chip exports to
China. The move requires Nvidia and AMD
to give US companies priority access to
their products before Beijing. The
measure now uh goes to the House for
approval. Meanwhile, China for its
measure has come out, Amara, and talked
about increasing restrictions on rare
earths metals, which is creating ire
around the world. But again, how much is
this leverage and how much is this
actually policy? Tons of leverage. China
has used this before at least when it
comes to rare earths, and it worked at
the negotiating table. That's when we
saw that U-turn when it comes to the H20
chips and whether or not they can go to
China or not. But it's not even just
rare earths. We are talking about
constant tit-for-tat every single day.
This morning, Qualcomm is now under
investigation in China. Also, they're
slapping levies on ships that come into
their port that are American-flagged.
There's going to be a tit-for-tat
between Beijing and Washington
to the last moment before Xi Jinping and
Trump sit down. And then what's going to
happen is slowly these are going to
unwind. That's the I guess for a lot of
people in the market best-case scenario.
>> It does feel like this is the US and
China fighting. It's like mommy and
daddy are fighting and the rest of the
world is sort of feeling the impact of
it. I found this fascinating, the fact
that the Germans finance minister came
out this morning and was talking about
how China's expansion of export controls
to production facilities of rare earths
minerals outside of China is a huge
concern. You take a look at their auto
manufacturing sector, and it's really
obvious why this is a big issue for
them.
>> China is decimating the German
manufacturing base and hollowing out
what is going on in Europe in terms of
their industries. And right now, Germany
sounds a lot like the United States.
German companies must reduce dependence
on critical raw materials including rare
earths. And basically, they want to
reallocate some of that work and do it
in Europe. Well, that's exactly what
this administration wants to do in the
United States, and that's exactly what
the Trump administration and even the
Biden administration was pushing Europe
to do as well. Make sure you're
alongside with the US is doing when it
comes to competition with China. Yeah,
and meanwhile, people are looking at how
the US economy is actually doing. And
guess what? We don't know. And why not?
Because we're in a data desert.
Meanwhile, the BLS announcing that it
will release the September CPI report by
the end of this month. The agency
recalling staff to prepare the key
inflation data needed to calculate next
year's Social Security checks. Will this
end up being the predecessor of some
sort of reemergence of official data? We
shall see. Nonetheless, maybe we can
rely on something more than the
University of Michigan sentiment survey.
Turning to the consumer, household
spending rising for 4 months straight
despite tariff pressures according to
the Bank of America Consumer Checkpoint
Survey. Joining us now is David Tinsley
of Bank of America Institute. David,
thank you so much for being with us. The
report was fascinating because it shows
an increase in spending, but not
necessarily an increase in incomes or an
increase in the paycheck. How do you
reconcile these two realities?
Well, I think on one hand, you've got
consumers still spending in the overall
US economy. You know, as you say, up
0.2. That was the last 4 months have
seen a rise. So, the overall consumer
looks solid, but
I think when we delve into the data, we
see these divergences between
higher-income consumers and lower-income
consumers. So, higher-income consumers,
their spending growth up 2.6%
year-over-year. Lower-income consumers,
up about 0.6 year-over-year. So, that's
a quite wide gap, and that's also
reflected in wages and salaries as well.
So, this is important, David. Are you
basically saying that the extent that
the consumer resilient story is one that
everybody keeps talking on and betting
on in markets, it is one continuing to
be resilience of the upper-income
consumer and not necessarily an overall
read of the health of the US economy?
Well, you know, I guess as a share of
the overall US consumer spending, the
higher and middle US consumers
uh make up a disproportionate share of
that spend. So, their spending kind of
drives the economy, if you like. And
higher-income consumers, in a way, they
have two clubs in their bag at the
moment. They've got wage growth at 4%
year-over-year. Uh so, that's real wage
growth because inflation is below that.
But they're also benefiting from these
wealth effects from the higher stock
market, for example, uh because wealth
is so skewed towards that higher income
cohort that they're really the guys that
are benefiting from
the the the rise in the S&P as well. So,
lower income consumers, weak wage
growth, it did tick up a little bit in
the September data, 1.4% year-over-year,
but quite a bit weaker. And of course,
they don't really benefit from the at
least directly from the S&P S&P
rallies or even housing wealth to a
large extent. So, I think, you know,
they're in a tighter spot.
When it comes to spending groups, are
you also seeing a divergence in terms of
generations?
Well, you this is quite interesting.
This isn't such a new thing, but really
over the last couple of years, in our
data, the older generations, the baby
boomers, traditionalists, they've been
driving the spending growth. And
actually, you see that reflected in some
of the things that have been rising like
cruises this cruise cruise line
spending.
Younger generations, obviously
millennials, Gen Z, but even Gen X to
some extent,
are in a much weaker spot in terms of
their spending growth. I mean, why is
that? Well, I guess for the young, you
know, you have seen some labor market
pressures and things like graduate
unemployment rising above overall US
unemployment. As you graduate at the
moment, it's a little bit tougher to get
a
get a position for Gen X. You know,
increasingly, they're in this position
where they've got they're potentially
going towards retirement. They've got to
save more. They might have older
relatives. They might still have the
kids at home. So, they've got quite a
lot of pressures on them, I think. And
this is impacted, of course, as well,
housing equity, has it not?
Yeah, you know, I mean, there's a lot of
equity in homes. It's not increasing
that much because obviously the housing
market is pretty stagnant. So,
consumers could, in principle, access
that equity that's been built up over
the time through things like home equity
lines of credit, HELOCs.
What we look at in our data, which is
the HELOC utilization rate, so people
who've got this facility set up, how
much they're tapping it, it's only it is
picking up, but it's picking up
relatively gradually. So, I think that's
not a major driver for the overall
consumer story. But for some, as the Fed
cuts and those and those rates become
more
desirable, it's going to help. So,
David, we're in a data vacuum right now
in terms of the official government
numbers that should be coming out. We
should be heading into CPI Tuesday next
week. And so, we're talking about
University of Michigan consumer
sentiment survey Friday. How much do you
see some sort of resilience that we
should be observing in the data, right?
What would we be getting if we were
getting that official government data?
Well, you know, I think
I mean, we do this every month, rain or
shine. So, it's
has increased focus right now, of
course, because of the dearth of
official data. I mean, I think what
you'd see in things like the retail
sales print is
retail might be a little bit soft in
September, but the overall consumer
picture is is pretty healthy.
In CPI, I mean, we don't have too much
to say on that in our report, but we do
notice that when you look at
transactions versus dollars spent in
some
categories of retail that are quite
tariff sensitive, if you like, there is
a divergence. So, there is some tariff
pressure probably coming through in the
bottom line. But it's, you know, it's
gradual and it's relatively modest. So,
essentially not necessarily
contradicting anything that we're seeing
in the corporate earnings or any of the
other stories that speak to this
consumer resilience for the most part.
David Tinsley of Bank of America
Institute, thank you so much for being
with us. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here are your Bloomberg briefs
with Yahaira Ona. Yahaira. Hi, Lisa.
China will begin charging special fees
on American ships docking at its ports
starting on Tuesday. The move comes in
retaliation to a US plan that charges
port fees on Chinese ships. It marks a
significant escalation in the
months-long trade dispute and comes
ahead of high-stakes meetings between
the countries' leaders later this month.
Meanwhile, Amazon is rolling out an
updated version of its main artificial
intelligence tool for business. It says
QuickSight is a chatbot and set of AI
agents that can analyze sales data,
produce reports, or summarize web
content. It's the company's latest
effort to grab a slice of the market for
software designed to automate and speed
up office work.
And Treasury Secretary Scott Bassing has
narrowed down the list of candidates to
replace Fed Chair Jay Powell from 11 to
just five. CNBC is reporting the
following names made the list: Michelle
Bowman, Chris Waller, Kevin Hassett,
Kevin Warsh, and Rick Reeder.
Trump's pick could be nominated to the
Fed, though not necessarily as chair, by
January. That's your Bloomberg brief,
Lisa. Thank you so much, Yahaira. And
Chris Waller, who is speaking on in a
television interview, said that there is
nothing political that he experienced in
interview for Fed chair and that the Fed
can use alternative data during the
government shutdown. Are they calling
ADP? ADP, they're looking at open table
bookings, maybe. I'm sure they're
looking at everything they can get their
hands on, corporate America and the
likes. Maybe it hasn't been political in
these interviews. I will say, though,
based on what I have heard about how
this has gone, when you walk into the
Oval with the president, the number one
question is, will you cut interest
rates? And that speaks to what he said,
which is that the US labor market is not
doing great. Up next, standoff on
Capitol Hill.
We will evaluate in good faith any
bipartisan proposal
that is sent over to us from the Senate
if it decisively addresses the
Republican health care crisis. Arkansas
Congressman French Hill joins us next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Building on what already has been a
record rally, futures turning up as the
session grows older with bond markets
still also rallying. What you are seeing
is about a 10% 10th of a percent
increase on S&P futures. The dollar
giving back a little bit after a pretty
strong week, a reversal of what we had
seen for the earlier part of this year
and a rallying bond markets. 10-year
yields now lower by four basis points,
4/10. Just amazing to see how stable it
has been over there, especially given
the fact that the government has been
closed for 10 days. And now we're
looking at this data desert that leaves
people spinning their wheels. Under
Surveillance this morning, standoff on
Capitol Hill.
We will evaluate in good faith any
bipartisan proposal
that is sent over to us from the Senate
if it decisively addresses the
Republican health care crisis. It's got
to be meaningful. It's got to actually
improve the lives of the American
people. But unlike Republicans, we are
actually willing to sit down and
evaluate in good faith
anything that could advance the ball
here. Here's the latest. The partisan
stalemate is dragging on in Washington,
D.C. with President Trump threatening
cuts to Democratic programs. Some
federal workers are preparing for missed
paychecks today as the shutdown
continues for a 10th day. Arkansas
Congressman French Hill joins us now.
Congressman, thank you so much for being
with us. Is there any progress being
made? Is there good faith effort to be
getting in the room and talking about
some of the details?
Well, good morning. It's nice to be with
you. I think senators are certainly
having conversations about what they'd
be willing to do in the appropriations
process after the government reopens.
This is the issue. The House passed a
clean bipartisan
continuing resolution to have all of
government open. And just yesterday,
Chuck Schumer put a sign up saying,
"We're getting stronger every day."
Well, you know who's not getting
stronger? People dependent on the flood
insurance program who are concerned
about storms or floods, people who are
working in the military, who know next
week they get their last paycheck,
people who are dependent on grant
programs from the federal government to
keep state
child care programs open. That's who's
not getting stronger every day. And so,
I would just simply say, all the Senate
has to do is pass the continuing
resolution and keep the appropriations
process going. So, the answer question
is, yes, senators are having
conversations about what they want to do
in fiscal 26 spending, including on
health care. Congressman Hill, you just
said the active service duty service
members, the military members, will get
their last paycheck next week. Is it
your understanding they will get paid
next week because I think there's still
been a question mark about that.
Well,
I think that's the last paycheck that
I'm aware of is the 15th.
And maybe that's maybe it's not, but
either way,
this is why I declined my pay during
this whole period as I have in previous
shutdowns. I don't think members of
Congress, particularly in the Senate,
should be paid while federal workers are
furloughed and some federal workers may
well lose their job when the simplest
thing to do, Anne Marie, is to get this
government back open. We were in the
middle of discussing all of the spending
for fiscal 26. The Senate had passed
three bills across the Senate floor. We
had passed four bills across the House
floor. And Susan Collins and Tom Cole
have that process underway and Schumer,
I think for internal Democratic
political purposes, chose to pick a
fight with Trump
and try to make a name for himself once
again. So, the Schumer Schumer shutdown
starts in his office. Meanwhile, we do
see the executive branch continuing
along on a a number of foreign policy
issues including Argentina. I'd love to
get your thoughts on this $20 billion
swap line. If they are using the ESF,
isn't that taxpayer dollars going to
Buenos Aires?
Over many, many years since the 1930s,
the US Treasury has used the Exchange
Stabilization Fund when they think it's
in American interest for geopolitical
reasons, for global international
finance stability reasons
by both political parties. Treasury
Secretary Bessant's first trip as
Treasury Secretary was to meet the
leadership at the Milei government in
Buenos Aires I've been with Argentina in
August to assess the IMF program, assess
their progress.
For the first time of trying to return
Argentina back to a market economy that
people can be benefited from by low
inflation, lifting kids out of poverty,
created a private sector, dropping
currency controls.
So, I think the Milei government is on
the right track and I think Secretary
Bessant is trying to carefully and
prudently see how they can encourage
that success. If If they're successful,
they will rival the stories in Taiwan or
Singapore or the Asian tigers and they
will reverse
the curse of 150 years of mismanagement
in finance in Buenos Aires.
>> But, Chair Hill, I was with the Treasury
Secretary when he went to Argentina in
April, his first international trip.
This is because of the midterm elections
coming up, not some geopolitical issue.
I disagree completely with you. I
understand that President Milei will is
having a national elections in Buenos
Aires in on October 26th, that's true
and it's important that he keep the
momentum going because they need
legislative support for the reforms that
they've made, but just in the first few
months of his leadership, he's made
substantial macroeconomic
reforms that have improved the outcome
and individual citizens have been
improved. So, it's more than that.
Argentina is an important strategic
partner to the United States in the
Southern Hemisphere for national
security
purposes, for shipping purposes, for
global open navigation purposes. So,
it's a much bigger issue than just the
fact that they have domestic elections
coming up. Congressman, the market is
shrugging off all of what's going on,
whether it's geopolitically or whether
it's the government shutdown and they're
actually looking more to measures that
you've put forward including some of the
deregulation of banks including some of
what we've seen with respect to
easing some of the ability for tie-ups
in the financial sector. As someone who
has been a part of the financial sector
in the small banking area as well as
who's been a really a leader in this
particular space, how much more do you
see this continuing? Are you encouraged
by what you're seeing? What kind of
consolidation are you hoping for?
Well, it's not about consolidation, it's
about right-sizing the role of
government supervision and tailoring
bank regulations.
This began under the first Trump
administration when we passed a
bipartisan bill that was signed into law
by President Trump back in 2018
and in that effort we wanted to tailor
regulation and supervision of our
financial institutions based on their
complexity, not just simply based on
size.
And that's been a theme that we've had
for my first 9 months of leading the
Financial Services Committee is we want
tailoring both in capital markets and in
commercial banking so that we encourage
banks to be able to stay successful,
have the capital they need to lend to
customers whether they're building new
homes or starting new businesses
and that had gotten atrophied under the
leadership by the Joe Biden Fed. It was
too bureaucratic, too paper intensive
and that's the focus that we've taken.
How much are you watching what's going
on in financial markets, the
unprecedented run in things like
Bitcoin, the mergers and acquisitions,
the leveraged buyouts that are starting
to come back? Are you starting to worry
worry that maybe things will begin to
get a little too far? Is that something
that is in your purview in any way?
Well, I do think there is a return of
animal spirits in the market. You see
that in the equity and bond market
spreads. You certainly see it in the
number of initial public offerings that
we've had, the largest in probably about
5 years.
And so, there are elements of that and
you've seen a return to some merger and
acquisition activity in some industries.
All all that is true. It's not something
that I worry about instinctively that
it's happening, but can it be overdone?
Certainly and that's the nature of of
markets. We want a regulatory and
supervisory system both at the
Securities and Exchange Commission and
in the bank supervisors that makes sense
that's focused on material financial
risk, focused on information that
investors need, focus our CEOs and
boards of directors at banks on material
safety and soundness issues and not be
distracted by you know, tertiary topics
like is making this loan going to have
an impact on climate risk.
Congressman French Hill, thank you so
much for being with us this morning and
good luck as the negotiations do
continue. Really interesting to see kind
of these diverging issues, the idea of
markets that see animal spirits at the
same time that you see a real kind of
conflagration of desires out in
Washington, D.C. Oh, yeah, the
divergence is on full display and also
what we see is going on in the equity
market is fueled by AI demand. At some
point that is going to become incredibly
difficult politically. Electricity
demand, the prices already skyrocketing.
We're seeing in places around Texas
where some people are actually having to
line up and ask for federal help to pay
their electricity bills and not only
that, all of these graduates coming out
of school not having the menu of
entry-level jobs because so many firms
are starting to look at potentially
using artificial intelligence.
Retraining programs and energy support
is going to be the really key two issues
going forward that maybe we'll be
hearing about in terms of Washington,
D.C. talking points. In the meantime,
what we are seeing in markets is a bit
of a lift to end the week after what we
have seen which is near record highs led
by the bond market which does continue
to rally. Coming up next hour, Paul
Christopher of Wells Fargo, Sheila
Kahaloglu of Jefferies, Alejandro
Grindal of Ned Davis Research and
Charlie McElligott of Nomura as we do
look to the potential for more of a data
desert. University of Michigan Sentiment
Survey, John Isaying, I'm so glad I'm
not there because you keep focusing on
that. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
The American capital markets
is the envy of the world. The equity
market is doing really, really well
despite the economy not being
particularly healthy. People like
myself, I think underestimated that role
of AI and I think it helps explain the
resilience of the US economy.
>> Even if the AI narrative continues, it
might challenge the fact that we look
around and say everything is
extraordinarily expensive.
>> As difficult as it is and it is
difficult to invest in these valuations,
we think that you need to stay invested.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz and
Annmarie Hordern. Good morning. Welcome
back to Bloomberg Surveillance. John
stayed home today since we're going to
focus on the University of Michigan
Sentiment Survey after what else is
there to focus on given that the
government and all its data releases are
staying closed and disrupted for a 10th
straight day. We can go over what we
might be getting if it reopens which it
probably won't. We would be getting that
University of Michigan Sentiment Survey
at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today as well as a
number of Fed speakers. Over into next
week, we would get Wednesday CPI, we
would get retail sales on Thursday and
we'd also get PPI, initial jobless
claims. So much to chew over and stead
Annmarie, we're looking down the barrel
of just more emptiness. We'd also get
the jobs report which we still don't
have. That is done that someone just
needs basically needs to press the
button and release. The issue right now,
of course, is we're in the middle of a
government shutdown. You just heard from
Chair French Hill of the Financial
Services Committee.
Does there does this all seem like any
urgency based on the politicians we
spoke to this week that they are going
to reopen anytime soon? The Senate has
left. It's a long weekend for them. So,
we're going to pick this story up on
Tuesday which means likely no data next
week, but
what the White House is doing is deeming
some individuals essential so at least
they can make sure the collection of
data's ongoing so that by the end of the
month if the government does reopen, we
do get CPI report and the others. Well,
if we want a CPI report if we want any
kind of data we've been looking at
corporate earnings, Delta we mentioned
really
demonstrating a positive read on the
consumer and Levi's indicating they're
able to pass pricing along. Right now,
what you're seeing in markets is a
little bit of a lift as the session
grows older because ultimately people
can look around, hate the valuations as
we just
heard Cameron Dawson talking about, but
ultimately having faith in this AI story
up about a 10th of a percent on the S&P
and Nasdaq Russell 2000 futures up about
a third of a percent. If you take a
look, the rally is into the bond space
as well. These two asset classes have
been intimately connected for quite a
while now. 30-year yields lower by four
basis points after an auction yesterday
signaled that yes, there was plenty of
investor demand even if there was a
concession of
after flirting with that 5% level not so
long ago. Meanwhile, gold reprising its
rally after yesterday's brief hiccup
after seeing a 50% more than 50% gain,
continuing its turn upward in the
market. Coming up this hour, Paul
Christopher of Wells Fargo as stocks are
stalling near a record highs. Sheila
Kahyaoglu of Jefferies as airlines face
the impact from the government shutdown,
perhaps. And Alejandro Gredal of Ned
Davis Research as we look ahead to
University of Michigan Sentiment Survey
because what else do we have to look
for? We begin this hour of futures
struggling for direction with stocks
hovering around those record high
levels. Paul Christopher of Wells Fargo
writing this, "Based on our expectations
for accelerating earnings, we believe
the next 12 to 15 months will favor US
equities." Paul joins us now. Paul,
let's start there. The idea that people
don't like buying into valuations like
this. They don't like buying into
consensus. They don't like doing it in a
vacuum that is just
because of government dysfunction and
yet it seems like that's the only place
to go. Can you explain how that is
somewhat of a difficult trade yet an
obvious one to many people including
yourself?
Yeah, I mean, surely it it is
uncomfortable for all the reasons that
that you mentioned. But, you know, you
have to sort of focus here on what I'd
call the big rocks. Uh the big rocks are
that that artificial intelligence is a
trend. Uh it has some momentum behind
it. It's investable and we need to take
advantage of it. Now, there's smart ways
to do that and not smart ways to do that
and we're we're going to try to stick
with the smart ways and I'm happy to
talk about those. Okay, so let's talk
about them. The smart ways to do it. Is
it investing in the uh hyperscalers or
is it investing in energy companies that
are going to have to fuel this over the
longer term?
Uh the answer is yes.
Uh but look, uh you've got hyperscalers
in in com services, communication
service, and in information technology.
All right, so you got two sectors there.
Do you want to buy them both or do you
just want to buy one right now? Buy the
one that looks the least overpriced uh
and then let's sit there for a while. Uh
and then at the same time, let's try to
diversify that AI exposure by going with
what I would call adjunct trends like
the data centers. You know, you've got
some of these two and three ton
computers right now around the country
sitting under tents. So, they're going
to have to build places for those
computers to live and they're going to
have to build out the energy
infrastructure not just to power them
but to cool them. Computers often have
cooling below the floor. So, utilities
and industrials look like two sectors to
us that are not as overpriced as uh in
fact, even attractively priced uh
compared to information technology and
com services. And then a third way to
diversify or let's call it a second way
to diversify uh is to look for trends
that aren't necessarily directly related
to I AI but that play another big rock
in the economy and that's the fact that
we think that the Fed is we believe is
going to cut two more times this year
and another two more times next year.
That's going to take the short end of
the yield curve lower as and with long
rates we think hovering near where they
are right now, that's a pretty good
looking environment for banks, right?
They're going to pay short-term deposit
rates which are going down so their
costs fall. At the same time, longer
rates stay high and that's what they're
going to earn on their lending. So, we
can play different trends here in
different ways that aren't as overpriced
as the overall market or the hypers you
know, the individual hyperscalers, the
Mag 7. So, I think that's the the way to
go here. You want to try to be as as
effective with your capital as possible.
And look, there are going to be
pullbacks and we're going to get to
earning season, there are going to are
going to be some disappointments and
those firms will be punished. Those
could be buying opportunities. We'll
have to see what transpires. Well, I'm
glad you brought up the energy demand
that it's going to be for this entire AI
boom. Electricity demand, do you think
that can end up slowing this momentum
because it might not keep pace with what
these hyperscalers are trying to do?
Yeah, it's a good point. I mean, look,
there are there are always going to be
constraints when you're when you're
going through a growing trend, a growing
pains trend like this one. This is a
very disruptive economic trend. We saw
the same thing if you go back to the to
the '90s, right? There there were
shortages of things. Uh if you go back
to the the the '40s and the '50s and the
'60s, uh we were developing automobile,
ship, and air transport and there were
constraints there. We eventually broke
through those constraints and for
investors, those constraints really
represent opportunities, right? So, as
long as you see electricity production
and and transmission being constrained,
that means there's opportunities in
utilities. There's opportunities in
midstream energy. There's now
opportunities in natural gas. For a
long-term investor, those constraints
have to be worked through and we believe
they will.
Well, I want to know what you think or
basically what you're doing in absence
of US economic data. Christian Nolting
from Deutsche Bank earlier in the
program was talking about how actually
it's been easier without having the US
economic data. What have you been
relying on?
Yeah, it is easier in a sense you don't
have the reports coming out every day.
But look, let's go back to the idea of
the big rocks. For a long-term investor,
what matters right here right now is
that the economy is still growing. I
don't think anybody doubts that and that
inflation is still moderate. I don't
think anybody doubts that really. The
and and those that combination along
with a labor market that's continuing to
soften but is not generating a lot of
new unemployment, that also tells us the
Fed is likely to cut. The economy is
likely to grow. We think earnings come
up to $300 per share next year on the
S&P 500. That those are the big rocks
that investors really need to know
about. The government shutdown, that's
noise, it's distraction. Let's look
through it. Yeah, at this time at this
point though, you have to wonder whether
the strength that we're seeing in
corporate earnings pairs with this idea
of a Fed easing. We were talking earlier
with Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex and
she said it is confusing to her that
we're not seeing some sort of sell-off
in long-term bonds as a result of the
Fed presumably cutting two more times
this year in the face of real strength
in the US economy. How do you manage
that risk considering that we really
haven't seen much of anything in the
bond space in terms of volatility?
Well, that is one risk on the long end
of the yield curve, the maturity
spectrum and we would we would agree
that that's a risk. We would see other
risks as well, potentially the tariff
revenue will not generate as as much
many dollars as Congress thinks and so
you could end up with wider deficits
going forward. So, there is risk we
think on the long end of the maturity
spectrum and that's why we've been
underweight there for some time for some
months. We're also underweight on the
short end expecting the Fed to cut. So,
that really leaves us with a bullet
strategy where we what we really like is
that intermediate portion of the
maturity spectrum, the yield curve,
those that three to seven year range,
investment grade investment grade munis
and corporates. That's where we would
target. Look, you're going to get a
yield in that three to seven year range
that's not far off of what it is in the
10 10 year but you're going to get a lot
less duration risk, a lot less risk from
fluctuating long-term yield. So,
whatever the reasons are, yeah, we'll we
we'd we would agree that we want to be
underweight long-term debt at this
point. Are bonds still the diversifier
that they have been traditionally?
Yes, over time they have been and I
mean, we've done the the work behind
this to to show the whether it's
short-term or long-term uh if in terms
of the number of years you look at,
bonds are consistently the best
uh diversifier for equities uh you know,
on a regular on a regular and ongoing
basis. At the moment, there's there's
lots of trends that are that are
churning around fixed income. So, though
there's you know,
some buying in the in the fixed income
space pushing yields down a little bit.
That's also tending to push more money
into stocks. But that that that's just
part of the normal give and take between
those two markets. We would want people
to hold both bonds and stocks because we
don't want to try to predict when one is
going to peak and the other one's going
to trough. Paul Christopher of Wells
Fargo Institute, thank you so much for
being with us. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Yahaira Olan and Yahaira. Hi Lisa.
The US has launched a bailout for
Argentina offering $20 in financing and
carrying out a rare intervention to prop
up the peso. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent announced the currency swap and
government purchases in a social media
post. Trump's support for Argentine
President Javier Milei comes ahead of
this month's midterm elections in
Argentina.
Meanwhile, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics has recalled staff to prepare
the September CPI report because it is
necessary to calculate the size of next
year's Social Security checks. The
agency was directed by the White House
Office of Management and Budget to bring
back employees to assemble the reports
in time for publication by the end of
the month.
And it was a stunning start to NFL week
six as the New York Giants pulled off a
major upset on Thursday night football
defeating the defending Super Bowl
champion Philadelphia Eagles 34 to 17.
The Giants rookie duo of Jackson Dart
and Cam Skytibo led the way for Big Blue
as Dart accounted for two touchdowns
while Skytibo powered his way to three
rushing scores to secure the victory.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa. Thank
you so much, Yahaira. Next, the morning
calls plus Sheila Kahyaoglu of Jefferies
as airlines get set to face the impact
from the government shutdown. Have you
booked flights recently? Are you
concerned about this? About flying
domestically? Yes. Internationally? No.
Well, that's next. We'll get her view.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
>> Senators are certainly having
conversations about what they'd be
willing to do. All the Senate has to do
is pass the continuing resolution and
keep the appropriations process going.
Schumer, I think, for internal
Democratic political purposes chose to
pick a fight with Trump.
That was Arkansas Congressman French
Hill as we reach day 10 of the
government shutdown. Both sides seem to
be pretty dug in at this point. Right
now, what you are seeing in markets is a
rally that seems to be increasingly dug
in as the session grows older. Our
futures now up almost 2/10 of a percent.
Meanwhile, the dollar fading just a
touch after a strengthening trend
counter to what we'd seen for most of
this year. And that rally building in
the bond space is coming after Chris
Waller said that he would open be open
to a quarter rate uh basis point rate
cut at the next few meetings and talked
about a labor market that really is, as
he sees it, under pressure. Time now for
the morning calls. First up, RBC raising
its price target on Tesla to $500 noting
potential market share growth in the
humanoid robot business. Those shares up
about a third of a percent. Next up,
Evercore ISI raising its price target on
Oracle to $350
expecting it to raise its revenue
forecast. Oracle uh reprising some of
the gains up about 2.2%.
after a number of skeptical notes about
the circular financing that we keep
talking about. And finally, Bernstein
raising its price target on Delta to
$74.
That's up from $59.80 right now. It's
citing its premium demand in domestic
travel. Those shares up 4/10 of a
percent after a huge rally yesterday on
the heels of an earnings report that
projected real strength across the
cabin. Sticking with air travel, flight
delays rippling across the country as
the government shutdown heads into
Bloomberg's Taylor Kendall joins us now.
Tyler, is there any sign that people are
going to come back to Washington, D.C.
or have they all left town for their
long weekend?
Uh Lisa, at this point no one's coming
back. According to the Senate, they
adjourned last night. They're going to
be back here on Tuesday, but no doubt
this strain at airports nationwide is
going to continue to ramp up the
pressure on Congress as the government
shutdown really does drag on because
we're seeing these flight disruptions
across the nation due in part to the
shortage of air traffic controllers who
are being forced to work without pay,
miss their paychecks amid this threat
from the administration that they could
actually lose their jobs permanently if
they don't show up for work. Now, I
think it's worth mentioning that during
the last government shutdown in 2019, we
heard from airport employees who said
they had to pick up second jobs because
they weren't getting paychecks or they
had to
stay at home because they couldn't spend
on childcare. And partly due to this
pressure from airports, we saw that
contribute to the deal that ultimately
helped the government reopen. But Lisa,
at this point the data is pretty stark.
The US Transportation Secretary Shawn
Duffy saying that on average air traffic
controllers contribute to about 5% of
the delays that we say see at airports,
that number has jumped to 53%
in just the last week alone. I will
point out that the problems have the
potential to compound here. And Lisa,
the US Travel Association says that the
US travel industry is estimated to lose
a billion dollars in spending each week
that this drags on. Bloomberg's Taylor
Kendall, thank you so much. Sheila
Kahyaoglu of Jefferies joins us now. And
Sheila, as somebody who might or might
not be interested for personal reasons
as well as otherwise, how much are we
seeing these delays really trickle
through the airline industry? We're
seeing some delays, but um you know,
some select airports were closed
yesterday for several hours like
Burbank. But in general, the airlines
are telling us this is not going to
impede travel demand and we're going to
get continue to see momentum in the
airlines. So, it's unfortunate for the
consumer, not so much for the airlines
and and the workers who aren't getting
paid. Essentially, people have to get
places regardless of how much of a pain
in the neck it is to get places. So,
it's not necessarily going to affect
revenues for now. Nonetheless, does this
kind of put a hitch in some of the
airlines' plans? Particularly, I'm
thinking United that's been trying to
really fight and counter some of the
reputational risks around the likes of
Newark. Delta reported yesterday and
they gave us a range for Q4 of up to to
4%. And I think that range puts into
account how long the shutdown lasts.
Last time it was only about a million
dollars a day. This time we think it's
going to be less than that for the last
9 days that they've seen. So, Newark is
always a highlight and a poster child
for air traffic delays. So, we'll see
how United fares. Southwest has a
slightly more exposure to government
employees as well. But for now, we don't
think it's going to stop travel demand.
I'm out all week next week traveling. I
don't think I'm canceling my plans. So,
you can give us a personal update on
actually if you're seeing delays. But we
are seeing delays and we're seeing
staffing shortages across air traffic
control towers around the United States.
And we're 10 days in. What happens when
we're 20, 30 potentially days into the
shutdown? Yeah, we'll see more and more
delays, but unfortunately, you know, we
see 1 to 2% cancellations usually and
about 20% delays. So, it'll just have
people stay at the airport a bit longer,
but that's all we have for now. Do you
think this is a pressure point for
Washington, D.C. because 2019 when we
saw massive delays in big airports like
Orlando and New York, that day President
Trump caved and then the government
reopened. Could it come down to just,
you know, airlines and delays? Um I
think it's a lot more than that. I mean,
if you look at the defense side of the
business,
uh Secretary Heckstall is talking about
awarding the next sixth gen Navy
fighter. Um this is during a shutdown.
So, I think the government's trying the
administration's trying to move forward,
but we'll see what happens with the
shutdown and how badly consumers are
affected.
>> that we've seen consistently through all
the earnings reports has been, and I'm
just moving to what we got from Delta
yesterday, aside from the government
shutdown, is that the front of the cabin
has been the real money driver and the
back of the cabin has been the laggard.
It sort of is a story a tale of two
airlines, the ones that are able to
cater to the business class side of
things, the ones that are fairing with
the budget customers. Did we see a shift
in tone yesterday from Ed Bastian of
Delta?
I think on a number of fronts. Not only
the discrepancy between main cabin and
premium, that pricing Delta gap even
wider. That was the first. Corporate was
up 8% year-over-year. That was really
solid. Cargo was up 90 16% or so
year-over-year. Their MRO business was
up 60%. All these stats were pretty
positive economically if you ask me. Um
some of it is market share gains on MRO
and cargo, but still those were pretty
high percentages.
>> Well, that's where I wanted to go. Is
this a read-through to the entire
industry or is what we're seeing a
consolidation of market share in the
likes of Delta, United, and American at
the behest of some of the budget
carriers? I think both fronts. You're
seeing United and Delta really
outperform. They've picked the right
strategy. We saw United add more routes
to Europe yesterday. Uh I Europe would
would be the one area in Delta's report
I would call out that was negative. The
read-through on pricing in Atlantic
revenues were down uh in Q3. That means
there was either too much capacity or
there was tariff impacted bookings. So,
people that were going to book summer
travel in March decided not to travel
into the US. So, that would be the one
data point I would I would call it as as
weak. But going back to the airlines,
it's the story of United and Delta
winning. The strategies of Southwest and
American and JetBlue uh
needing to refocus their areas.
>> Did you see any evidence that the rest
of the cabin, the people who are
sandwiched into economy, are coming
back? That the recovery that you're
seeing in demand is also coming from
people at the middle income, the lower
income spheres of of the population
rather than just the people at the
front. You saw that a bit. Um in the
first half, we saw pricing for air fares
down. In Q3, Delta's report was a turn
positive and they're forecasting an
improvement in Q4. So, we really needed
to see that positive inflection in the
main cabin in Q3 and we got that and
we're going to see more momentum into
Q4. Some of it is because airlines are
cutting capacity. So, you're having less
routes and some of it is because the
consumer feels more confident. And that
was evident in their close-in bookings.
Uh they saw more and more cash sales.
What are you expecting from American and
JetBlue based on what we've learned from
Delta?
Um you know, I think the Atlantic data
point for American is one that we've
highlighted as potentially being weak.
Uh they're the third carrier in the
Atlantic. If you have too much capacity,
not enough demand for multiple reasons,
I think you'll see a weak report there.
Uh we're we're for we're more bullish
into United, but I think Delta put up a
very clean print without any news uh you
know, any other
uh items to muddy the waters.
>> What about the budget carriers? Given
the fact that Delta is is saying, to
Lisa's point, it's the entire airline.
Do you think the budget carriers are
going to do well or those customers
going straight to the big dogs?
Uh you know, we we lean into the network
carriers. I think Southwest adding
routes into cities like Las Vegas isn't
going to necessarily help their pricing
momentum. But United opening up a route
to Berry or Bilbao in Spain or Italy, I
think that you know, that uh ignites
demand that wasn't necessarily there.
That's a route that nobody flies
directly from the US and it could you
know, instigate demand. Last year they
did Greenland, so this year they stuck a
little bit more conservative with their
routes. Sheila Kahyaoglu of Jefferies,
thank you thank you so much for being
here. Really interesting point there
that Sheila made, Amara, about uh the
international travel for Delta and this
question of whether it's tariffs,
whether it's other issues, the
international inbound
uh class. That's the one area of
weakness that you are seeing.
>> And the issue with tariffs, if you were
looking to potentially not take that
trip, not buy that car, well, once you
have certainty, you're willing to maybe
buy the car. But are you going to go get
take the trip now that it's October and
it's a little bit cold when you were
maybe planning on doing a summer holiday
in Europe? No. So, maybe you just say
I'll go next year. You can't make up for
some of that lost demand. Meanwhile,
what you are seeing in markets is
something of a rally that is building on
the heels of these comments from Fed
Governor Chris Waller where he did see
say the job market was a bigger concern
than any kind of inflationary pressure
saying that payrolls was likely
negative. This in an interview this
morning. That's giving a real boost to
what we're seeing in the bond market and
then giving a boost the Russell 2000
futures up 4/10 of a percent now Amarie
really out performing on the heels of
the rally in the bond space.
>> And Governor Waller has been making this
case for months. It was almost as if Jay
Powell at Jackson Hole the speech you
you were there for
almost as like Governor Waller wrote
that speech. He's been talking about the
cracks in the labor market. What really
concerns him is the north of 7%
unemployment for college graduates. So
it's no wonder here. This is where his
bias is going to the end of October
whether or not we have the US government
data. Given the fact that he is a
potential contender to be the next Fed
chair. His voice has a lot more cloud in
the market as we're seeing this morning.
Coming up next Alejandra Grindal of Ned
Davis research as more US economic data
gets delayed plus Danny Burger with your
morning movers. The data that we do get
Levi's falling after warning tariff
impacts are just starting to bite. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Seeing a lift to the open as we get a
little bit closer futures higher on the
heels of comments by Chris Waller Fed
Governor when he said that he was
looking at the labor market of first and
foremost and seeing a weakening. That
has ignited the stock market rally
particularly futures on the Russell up
4/10 of a percent. It is because you are
seeing a deepening rally into the bond
space particularly on the longer end of
the yield curve led by that 30-year
denomination down four basis points to
4.68%.
Similar kind of move in 10-year
Treasuries and a three basis point or
two basis point move in the two-year
yield. One hour away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Danny
Burger. Danny. Hey Lisa, we had earnings
from Levi's and they upgraded their
outlook. Their profitability is looking
better. Yet this is what you're seeing a
decline of nearly 7 and a half percent.
Yes, the shares have run up. But the
thing investors seem to be grabbing onto
is the CEO saying that tariffs are just
starting to bite. So that profitability
they got because they were able to raise
prices and people kept buying jeans.
Maybe that's limited for where we go
from here. Elsewhere this morning silver
stocks are having a really great day. A
lot of the miners here up at least 1.4%
this morning with Pan American First
Majestic Silver. That's up 3.9% with
silver the precious metal trading around
record highs. It's outperformed gold.
It's that whole fear to basement trade
what have you. And also there's some
real tightness and some oddities in the
London spot market that also seems to be
fueling a premium in New York.
Meanwhile, we're looking at Venture
Global those shares getting crushed.
This is the LNG company it in a surprise
loss in arbitration
with another oil major. The concern is
that this sets up potential litigation
actions around its LNG shipments for
those that face similar issues. So those
shares down 18% Lisa. Thank you so much
Danny. Just picking up on what Danny was
talking about silver. It just really is
remarkable to see up more than 70% so
far this year and I was looking at some
statistics.
The metal is used in things like solar
panels and wind turbines. All of that
industrial use accounts for more than
half of the silver use. So this isn't
just jewelry. It isn't just necessarily
storing in your basement. Demand is set
to exceed supply for the fifth
consecutive year.
>> Yeah, there's actually a use case for
this which is a really good point unlike
gold where everyone just wants to
basically flood into because they're
nervous about central bank buying and
geopolitical risk silver and silver's
actually higher than gold has been
doing. Gold is up 50% on the year.
Silver's up 70% on the year and still
counting. Yeah, well you're still to
talk about some pretty big numbers at
this point. Turning to the global
economy and the historic US investment
in Argentina. Bloomberg's Michael McKee
joins us now. Mike, you did a great job
putting into perspective what this is
like. Can you just give us a sense of
how unusual this type of $20 billion
credit line really is? Yeah, it is the
swap line not the intervention in the
currency markets that's really kind of
unusual. The US has intervened in
currency markets before never
on such a small level as Argentina.
They've bailed out the euro and they've
bailed out the yen.
But the swap line is kind of different
because ordinarily they're between
central banks and the idea is that the
central bank that needs dollars will
send their currency to the Fed and the
Fed will send dollars to that
country for companies that need to repay
loans in dollars. And then they will
send it back and the Fed will take a
little bit of a interest rate gain on
that. In this case it doesn't look like
we're going to be sending dollars at
least Scott Bessent says we're not going
to be sending dollars to Argentina in
that sense. Maybe more along the lines
of guaranteeing loans which is kind of
what they did in the Mexican peso crisis
back in 1994.
Some some guaranteed loan guarantees and
then the US bought some of the Mexican
paper. But we don't have any details yet
and of course there are people who are
noting that a lot of people who were in
the hedge fund business and worked with
Scott Bessent in the past have bought a
lot of distressed Argentine debt and
wonder if he's trying to help them out.
He's not going to tell us but that could
be an ancillary benefit. Mike, in the
meantime we're talking about this as we
don't have really official data to talk
about. We're going to be focused in
University of Michigan sentiment survey
that comes out in about an hour and a
half. But then we would be getting CPI.
We would be getting retail sales. We
would be getting PPI and unemployment
claims next week. But it looks like
right now we're not going to get it,
right? Well, we're not going to get it
next week but we may get CPI.
The Michigan numbers are going to be
important today because of the lack of
other data. It's the inflation
expectations number that you can see
that. That's the one year
that is going to matter to the Fed
because they're trying to keep inflation
expectations grounded. We did see in the
New York Fed version of inflation
expectations that they went up on a
one-year basis to 3.4%. They run a
little bit hotter in the Michigan
numbers. But if they stay where they are
and not rise, that would be some good
news for the Fed. Now as for the CPI,
the Bureau of Labor Statistics said last
night that they are going to bring back
some employees and put together the data
that they had already gathered in
September for the CPI and try to get it
out by the end of the month. Their goal
is to have it ready because it's used in
the calculation of social security cost
of living adjustments. But if they can
get it done by the 29th when the Fed
meets next, it would be a big help to
Fed officials trying to figure out
what's going on in the economy. The one
thing they have not explained with this
though is why they don't put out the
employment report because that's already
finished. They don't have to bring
anybody back to do it. They just have to
push the button. So that's a question
still out there for the BLS. Yeah, Mike
great great point. Michael McKee there.
Thank you so much for that. And Chris
Waller was saying that he thought it
would likely be a negative payrolls
number had we gotten it. Alejandra
Grindal of Ned Davis research joins us
now. Alejandra, it's so interesting we
don't have the data coming out of
official government sources. We do have
the data coming out of the hyperscalers
that just shows incredible investment
profitability. Is that essentially what
everyone has to hinge their bets on at
this point in the absence of anything
else?
At least for the time being. Thank you
for having me again. And I do want to
point out that there's still a fair
share of private sector data out there.
So even though we're not getting as much
of the public sector data that we've
been used to getting, we'll have the
PMIs, the ISM, NFIB. You mentioned
University of Michigan later today,
Conference Board data. And you know,
I'll be honest with you. I'm also a
global economist and I have to deal with
a lot of instances where there isn't
much data. Certain countries especially
some emerging markets. So if you look at
in the whole realm of things, we're not
necessarily flying blind. We're we're
definitely dealing with less information
but we're not flying blind either. Are
you saying that this is a a good time to
look at the template for emerging
markets and and take out that playbook
and follow that in the absence of
everything else? What is it showing if
you are looking at the other data points
that are available? Does it confirm this
idea that Chris Waller was talking about
that the labor market really is flagging
or does it confirm this idea that the
stock market seems to be rallying around
which is that everything is great?
Well, so the most of the data is telling
us that we're seeing slowing economic
growth but no recession. So stock market
usually continues to rally as long as we
don't have a recession, right?
But in terms of some of that job market
weakness, that's why the Fed has
intervened. We have seen some job market
weakness and we actually did start
seeing that in other data even before we
started seeing it with the payrolls data
with the establishment survey. Some of
it was official data such as the JOLTS
survey. But we were starting to notice
some weakness in jobs through some of
the survey data such as the Conference
Board's Consumer Confidence Index,
some of the NFIB data and even the ISM
data.
So if we have
a weakening job market, what you talk
about is below trend growth in the US
but not a recession. So what kind of
environment is this?
You know, it's a a lot of it is just an
environment that's being held down by
near-term uncertainty. You know, at Ned
Davis research we tend to focus on a lot
of data and most of the data we look at
we'll look for, you know, what are
called like recessionary thresholds that
look at a broad array of data and for
the most part, they're not really giving
us an indication that recession is a
near-term concern. Um and we have gone
through periods where we've had
below-trend growth um and no recession.
How do you feel about inflation now, the
fact that as Lisa has brought up today,
we're hearing companies talk about it
like Levi's that they are passing on
these costs to consumers?
You know, for for the time being, we do
and I think last time I was on the show,
I said the same thing. Um we do see
upside risks to inflation. Um obviously
coming from the tariff perspective, but
I think also a very underappreciated
source of upside inflation can come um
actually from a lot of the deportation
policies that are um seeing a decline in
workers in certain services-related
industries and agricultural industry.
So, we do expect um a modest up leg in
inflation. Up until now, yes, you
mentioned um Levi's. Um they have
a lot of consumer goods tend to have
smaller margins, so they may have to
pass on the higher but up until now, we
have seen businesses absorb a larger
share of the tariff costs. Um the issue
is is this going to be just a one-off
thing or will it continue for longer?
And that's really the question up in the
air and something that the Fed needs
data for to be able to gauge. Um we do
anticipate that the Fed will reduce
rates, um but how much they end up
going, whether they actually get to
neutral, um will depend on how long this
tariff impact happens and the longer we
see prices accelerate even if it's
modest, um if it starts impacting
inflation expectations, then that
ultimately could become a
self-fulfilling prophecy and that's
really what we'll be watching. Has it
surprised you, Alejandro, that we
haven't seen those expectations of
higher inflation priced into Fed funds
futures, whether it's the long end of
the yield curve or even just inflation
expectations in break-even rates?
Yeah, it's it's a balance of risks. And
so, for the time being, because the
market-based measures of inflation
expectations remain fairly stable, we
are, you know, reasonably confident that
we won't see runaway inflation, but
we'll be watching it because we are
seeing it within the consumer measures.
Mike McKee mentioned it earlier. We'll
probably see a little bit with
University of Michigan today. Um and if
it moves further and further, then it
might start impacting the market-based
measures. But at least the fact that
those have remained, you know, fairly
stable, um gives us some hope that the
impact of tariffs will be relatively
short-term. Meanwhile, the incredible
rally this year has left a lot of people
nervous and they've been trying to poke
holes in it. And earlier this week, we
talked a lot about the potential for an
AI bubble. And then Microsoft comes out
with this overnight where they forecast
uh data center crunch persisting into
2026.
Is there just this fundamental drive
that really does force any kind of
bearish sentiment around the hyperscaler
space or the AI rally that we've seen to
just go away and hide in the corners for
a little bit longer?
Well, that that that's the fundamental
question, right? How long can that work?
Um it's a lot of also what's been
driving the economy, right? Like if you
look at capital expenditures, we're
seeing quite a bit in the AI space and
that's what's, you know, keeping that
element of the economy afloat and then
it's driving markets. And for those who
own stocks, that's creating a positive
wealth effect and it's keeping people
spending um despite the fact we're
seeing some of these job concerns um
especially keeping spending within the
higher income levels. Um so, it's
definitely driving that story. Um
whether it's excessive optimism, I mean,
we have a lot of measures in house that
try to measure optimism and we're not
seeing excessive measures yet. I think
there's still some people sitting on the
sideline because they're concerned about
um the impacts of the Trump
administration. Um there could be other
folks sitting on the sideline, but, you
know,
we we we we could be getting closer to
that point, but I don't think it's
coming um at least within the next few
months. Alejandro Grindal of Ned Davis
Research, thank you so much for being
with us and have a wonderful weekend.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief, Yohaira on
Anti-Yohaira. Hi, Lisa. The 72-hour
period to release the Israeli hostages
has begun. Steve Witkoff, the US special
envoy to the Middle East, says the
ceasefire agreement between Israel and
Hamas started at noon local time.
President Donald Trump is planning to
travel to Israel on Sunday to be on hand
for the release of the hostages. He also
said he might address Israel's
parliament.
Meanwhile, Maria Corina Machado of
Venezuela has won the Nobel Peace Prize.
Machado won for her work promoting
democracy and decades-long struggle
against authoritarianism in Venezuela.
Machado has been in hiding for more than
14 months after Nicolas Maduro declared
victory in last year's election.
President Trump's assistant post Leon X
Nobel proved they place politics over
peace after the announcement.
And Apple will expand the roles of some
top executives as chief operating
officer Jeff Williams prepares to leave
the company. Services chief Eddie Cue
will take over Apple's health and
fitness teams. And Craig Federighi will
oversee the Apple Watch operating
system. The moves come ahead of the
planned launch of a new subscription
service dubbed Health Plus. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Yohaira. Have a wonderful weekend
and thank you for this morning. I can't
wait until we don't have doctors
anymore, we just have wristwatches that
tell you, "Please stop eating that."
That's what I imagine.
>> Or rings. Or rings that tell you that
you're not sleeping enough.
>> humanoid robots that tell you to go get
some more exercise. Up next, setting you
up for the day ahead, plus Charlie
McElligott of Nomura saying that
investors are not shying away from the
AI trade. I know you all were wondering
that. Looking today, again, Nasdaq
futures up ahead of the open. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
You try to get everything you get from
the data perspective. So, for example,
ADP, when you don't get the nonfarm
payrolls, you really watch closer. But
of course, you need to take into account
what kind of indicators are there. And I
think yeah, for a certain period of
time, you probably can fly a bit blind
from the data perspective. That was
Christian Nolting of Deutsche Bank who
said it was easier without all of those
data points that you have to analyze
considering the fact that things are
still chugging along. Cutting down to
the opening bell, here's a trading diary
into next week. 10:00 a.m. Eastern,
University of Michigan sentiment survey.
Also today, rounding out the week with
Fed speak from Goolsbee and Musalem.
5:00 p.m. Eastern, President Trump is
making an announcement. Next week, more
key economic data that we're probably
not going to be getting. On Wednesday,
we've got CPA CPI data or we don't have
it. On Thursday, PPI and retail sales
are supposed to come out with that
additional round of jobless claims that
we did not get this week. Turning back
to markets, Charlie McElligott of Nomura
writing, "In spite of such euphoria in
asset prices leading to what many would
expect is caution. The client refrain
for many now is you cannot own enough AI
trade mega-cap tech." Charlie joins us
now. Charlie, thank you so much for
being with us. I have to say, it seems
like in the absence of data, the buy AI
trade only gets stronger because
ultimately the data that we do get just
continues to support it. Is there the
skepticism in your clients that we hear
from investment analysts sometimes on
this show?
No.
No, there really isn't. I mean, look,
there's there's dual narratives right
now. The AI um
you know, the AI phenomenon has been,
you know, massive with regards to the
CAPEX and now this very kind of
self-referential, self-reinforcing uh
financing dynamic. Um and that's been
part of the high water raising all boats
with regards to markets and easier
financial conditions. But macro-wise as
well, there's been this kind of fiat
currency debasement trade, right? Where
governments are running fiscal hot,
heavy deficit trajectories, you know,
the spending in conjunction now with
central bank easing.
And when you have all of that working
together, it's creating more of this
kind of pro-cyclicality both in markets,
market forces, economic forces. So,
people are more concerned right now,
just having my big macro quarterly
dinner this week, more concerned about
missing the right tail than they are
about downside, even with markets at
highs. It sort of raises this question,
especially when you talk about the
debasement trade and this monetary and
fiscal bazooka that it seems to be
firing on both cylinders right now. A
question of whether the AI trade is
viewed as almost safer than some of the
more traditional ones. And I put it in
safe in quotes, but the idea of that
being more reliable than say government
debt or credit in certain spheres.
>> Yeah, for sure. I mean, look, there's
these companies are and the big
difference between this time and, you
know, kind of the tech bubble, right? Is
that this is not, you know, a dream per
se, right? These companies are
generating massive profits and cash
flows. And so far, that's been most of
the financing of this pursuit of the
chips and the centers and um and
everything, you know, with regards to
the kind of the delta one around that,
the halo of the the energy providers and
the utilities and all that stuff. The
the thing is that these companies are
super high quality, you know, obviously,
you know, very highly rated debt is as
well. Um at a time where bonds haven't
worked, right? And and, you know, you
want to speak to about this kind of
speculative environment, the speculative
backdrop, right? It's not just risky
assets, it's not just the AI right tail.
Um it's short volatility strategies,
right? Short volatility strategies have
kind of replaced, become this new tool
for income generation in a world where
bonds haven't worked for 5 years because
we've been running, you know, above
trend. So, they're quality, they're big
cash flow generators, they have this
story to them, they keep going up,
they're liquid. There's a lot of stuff
going for it right now. And and
honestly, right now, imminently, you
know, it's going to take some sort of a
margin shock, you know, that that
currently is not out there that market
has not really felt
to sway them from this trade and it
keeps again working with these market
forces, particularly, you know, the
stuff that I care about options and
leveraged ETFs.
It just feeds us higher. Does it give
any of these investors pause though that
all these deals are rather circular?
They are but I think again, you know,
the difference being that there's real
money
that's being made right now. You know,
real money, real profits, real cash. The
thing that I think can inflict us as we
go forward here is this idea that and
you've already seen this with Oracle,
right? You've seen, you know, the Oracle
kind of
you know, the debt ratios really change
where you're talking now about bringing
debt because you're burning through so
much of your cash, right? Cash has been
a huge part
of the buyback story for 15 years. You
know, when when corporates learned with
you know, how well rewarded could be
with buying back your own stock, that's
become a you know, that was probably
over the past 15 years the largest
single source of demand for equities,
you know, and it's a wall suppressor,
right? You're shrinking the float,
you're stabilizing bid under the market
and then when stocks are selling off
they're even more aggressive.
If that cash is now being burned through
in pursuit of this, you know, capex
euphoria and you start now having to
bring more debt to kind of fund all of
these things at the same time, the risk
here and something that I'm watching
closely in coming quarters is if you see
that almost perpetually higher
announced buyback number across S&P 500,
which is largely these AI megacap tech
companies, if that starts turning lower
at the same time that the debt issuance
from these companies is moving higher
because that now has to be brought in to
to fulfill all of these obligations,
that's something I'm going to watch
because again, that buyback bid to
stocks has been the number one source
for stocks over the past 15 years.
>> Jonathan's made this point a lot though.
The market is rewarding these companies
for doing that, for leveraging up. Well,
I mean, but it's still really, really
low leverage. And look, you know, this
has been a talking point too this week
at our at our
at the macro dinner, our credit
discussion, you know, people are
nervous,
you know, kind of on the outside looking
in with regard to First Brands and
Tricolor and you know, delinquencies at
Carvana wondering if some of this
clustering you're seeing in pockets of
like asset-backed or super subprime
space is something bigger and it is
going to be part of the story next year
because tech is now the largest part of
kind of IG issuance. You know, that's a
big story if this kind of keeps
perpetuating where you have to bring
more debt to finance these pursuits and
it's somehow also too at the same time
impacting the amount of stock you're
buying back. It's something to watch but
again, these companies are incredibly
cash flow positive, incredibly high
quality because they're so profitable.
So that's an inflection in the future
but that's not a now issue. How much are
people stretching outside of the
hyperscaler space in order to get
returns, in order to get alpha given the
fact that it's a pretty played out trend
if not complete on the hyperscalers?
Yeah, so I mean, the the fear of the
right tail is is, you know,
taking prominence as we've spoken about
and I think the last time I was in here
I was talking about this kind of people
were in the bunker. So we've moved from
the bunker to the fort, fear of right
tail.
In this case, people now and this is
tends to corroborate what you're seeing
with regards to an early cycle move,
right? Fed cutting into an early cycle
economic reacceleration. You're now
moving into really high beta junkier
stuff. So like unprofitable tech has
been on a tear, short basket been on a
tear, a lot of these things up 15, 20%
the past week and a half.
So you're seeing elements of that.
Obviously, you've seen crypto move to
new highs partially as a function of
dollar debasement or fiat fiat
debasement most recently the yen with
regards to the elections there. You
know, so you're pushing into like the
wingier stuff, which is providing that
extra beta, you know, it's silver as you
spoke about earlier, right? Silver is,
you know, the is the junkie high beta
version of gold.
You know, and it's acting that way even
with an industrial purpose, right?
That's where you're getting your juice.
Call skew in these things, right? Demand
for out of the money stuff versus at the
money, 95th to 100% on all this stuff.
So people are reaching because they're
worried about this right tail and all
this stuff because you have a
career anxiety right now. It's
performance anxiety. Like it's
existential. If you don't capture this,
you're cooked. The the trick here now is
that at one point is all of that
suppressed volatility, all of that
exposure built off of the suppressed
volatility, all of the leverage into the
highest beta stuff, you know, often
times that tends to tip over and kind of
collapse under its own weight and that's
what I'm conscientious of. So like I'm
constantly looking at like where people
hedging and it's the VIX calls, VIX
upside, VIX call spread space. Charlie
McElligott, thank you so much for being
here. Wonderful to have you. Let's do it
again. That's Charlie McElligott of
Nomura with the mean metals with silver.
I love that. That's a fantastic way to
look at it. Coming up on Monday, Peter
Shearer of Academy Securities, Alessio
De Longis of Invesco, Seema Shah of
Principal Asset Management and Jean
Boivin of BlackRock. Thank you for
listening. Have a wonderful weekend.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]